


The Little Land | A Child's Garden of Verses: Selected Poems | Robert Louis Stevenson | Lit2Go ETC










 

Lit2Go







Authors
Books
Genres
Collections
Readability







A Child's Garden of Verses: Selected Poems


      by Robert Louis Stevenson


      The Little Land    




        Additional Information
      



Year Published:
            1913          

Language:
            English          

Country of Origin:
            England          

Source:
            Stevenson, R.L. (1913). A Child’s Garden of Verses. Simon & Schuster Children’s.          





Readability:


                Flesch–Kincaid Level:
                0.9




Word Count:
            395          





Genre:
Poetry


✎ Cite This




Share
|











Downloads


Audio


Passage PDF

Student Activity








APA


MLA


Chicago






            Stevenson, R. (1913). The Little Land. A Child's Garden of Verses: Selected Poems (Lit2Go Edition). Retrieved October 02, 2025, from https://etc.usf.edu/lit2go/59/a-childs-garden-of-verses-selected-poems/4726/the-little-land/




            Stevenson, Robert Louis. "The Little Land." A Child's Garden of Verses: Selected Poems. Lit2Go Edition. 1913. Web. <https://etc.usf.edu/lit2go/59/a-childs-garden-of-verses-selected-poems/4726/the-little-land/>. October 02, 2025.
          



            Robert Louis Stevenson, "The Little Land," A Child's Garden of Verses: Selected Poems, Lit2Go Edition, (1913), accessed October 02, 2025, https://etc.usf.edu/lit2go/59/a-childs-garden-of-verses-selected-poems/4726/the-little-land/.
          



 

Back
Next








                        The embedded audio player requires a modern internet browser. You should visit Browse Happy and update your internet browser today!
          

	When at home alone I sit
	And am very tired of it,
	I have just to shut my eyes
	To go sailing through the skies—
	To go sailing far away
	To the pleasant Land of Play;
	To the fairy land afar
	Where the Little People are;
	Where the clover-tops are trees,
	And the rain-pools are the seas,
	And the leaves, like little ships,
	Sail about on tiny trips;
	And above the Daisy tree
	      Through the grasses,
	High o’erhead the Bumble Bee
	      Hums and passes.

	In that forest to and fro
	I can wander, I can go;
	See the spider and the fly,
	And the ants go marching by,
	Carrying parcels with their feet
	Down the green and grassy street.
	I can in the sorrel sit
	Where the ladybird alit.
	I can climb the jointed grass
	      And on high
	See the greater swallows pass
	      In the sky,
	And the round sun rolling by
	Heeding no such things as I.
	Through that forest I can pass
	Till, as in a looking-glass,
	Humming fly and daisy tree
	And my tiny self I see,
	Painted very clear and neat
	On the rain-pool at my feet.
	Should a leaflet come to land
	Drifting near to where I stand,
	Straight I’ll board that tiny boat
	Round the rain-pool sea to float.

	Little thoughtful creatures sit
	On the grassy coasts of it;
	Little things with lovely eyes
	See me sailing with surprise.
	Some are clad in armour green—
	(These have sure to battle been!)—
	Some are pied with ev’ry hue,
	Black and crimson, gold and blue;
	Some have wings and swift are gone;—
	But they all look kindly on.

	When my eyes I once again
	Open, and see all things plain:
	High bare walls, great bare floor;
	Great big knobs on drawer and door;
	Great big people perched on chairs,
	Stitching tucks and mending tears,
	Each a hill that I could climb,
	And talking nonsense all the time—
	      O dear me,
	      That I could be
	A sailor on a the rain-pool sea,
	A climber in the clover tree,
	And just come back a sleepy-head,
	Late at night to go to bed.


 

Back
Next









            This collection of children's literature is a part of the Educational Technology Clearinghouse and is funded by various grants.
          

            Copyright © 2006—2025 by the Florida Center for Instructional Technology, College of Education, University of South Florida.
          


License
Credits
FAQ
Giving




This document was downloaded from Lit2Go, a free online collection of stories and poems in Mp3 (audiobook) format published by the Florida Center for Instructional Technology. For more information, including classroom activities, readability data, and original sources, please visit https://etc.usf.edu/lit2go/59/a-childs-garden-of-verses-selected-poems/4726/the-little-land/.


Lit2Go: A Child's Garden of Verses: Selected Poems
The Little Land






