

KO: 헉클베리 핀, 넥서스 잉글리시  
EN: Huckleberry Finn, Nexus English  

***

### Scene 1 미망인 더글라스와의 생활  
(Scene 1 Living with Widow Douglas)  

KO: 나에 대해 잘 모른다면, 톰 소여의 모험이라는 책을 읽지 않았기 때문일 거예요. 하지만 그건 상관없습니다.  
EN: You don't know about me if you have not read a book by the name of the adventures of Tom Sawyer, but that doesn't matter.  

KO: 그 책에서 마크 트웨인은 주로 사실을 썼습니다. 빠진 부분이 조금 있었지만, 대체로 사실이었죠.  
EN: In that book by Mark Twain, he told the truth, mostly. There were a few things missing, but it was mainly the truth.  

KO: 결국 그 책 마지막에, 톰과 나는 강도들이 동굴에 숨겨둔 돈을 찾아내 부자가 되었습니다.  
EN: In the end of that book, Tom and I found the money that the robbers hid in the cave, and it made us rich.  

KO: 우리는 1인당 6,000달러, 모두 금으로 받았습니다.  
EN: We got $6,000 a piece, all gold.  

KO: 그래서 대법관 대처 판사가 그 돈을 맡아 이자로 돌려놓았고, 우리는 해마다 1달러씩 얻었습니다.  
EN: Well, Judge Thatcher took it and put it out at interest. We got a dollar all round the year.  

KO: 더글라스 미망인은 나를 양자로 데려가서 예의범절을 가르치겠다고 약속했습니다. 하지만 집에서 사는 건 힘들었습니다.  
EN: Widow Douglas took me for her son, and she promised to teach me good manners, but it was rough living in the house all the time.  

KO: 미망인은 너무 엄격했습니다. 나는 집안살이가 도저히 견딜 수가 없어 떠났다가, 결국 톰이 말하길 점잖은 꼴을 하지 않으면 그의 도둑단에 들어올 수 없다고 해서 다시 돌아왔습니다.  
EN: The widow was so proper. When I couldn't stand it any longer, I left the house, but I came back because Tom told me that I couldn't join his group of robbers if I was not respectable.  

KO: 내겐 친구들과 함께하는 게 가장 중요했으니까요.  
EN: Joining my friends was most important.  

KO: 더글라스 미망인은 나를 또다시 새 옷으로 갈아입혔습니다. 나는 땀만 흘릴 뿐이었죠. 그녀는 저녁종을 쳤고 제때 자리에 앉아야 했습니다.  
EN: Widow Douglas put me in those new clothes again. All I could do was sweat and sweat. She rang the bell for supper, and you had to come on time.  

KO: 식탁에 가면 바로 먹을 수 없었고, 그녀가 머리를 숙여 음식 위에 중얼거리기 전까지 기다려야 했습니다. 음식엔 아무 문제가 없는데 말이죠.  
EN: When you got to the table, you couldn't start eating, and you had to wait until she lowered her head and grumbled things over the food, though nothing was wrong with it.  

KO: 저녁이 끝나면 나에게 책을 읽게 했고, 담배를 못 피우게 했습니다. 그녀는 그게 더러운 습관이라고 했습니다.  
EN: After supper, she used to make me read books, and she wouldn't let me smoke. She said it was a dirty habit.  

KO: 사실 어떤 것에 대해 아는 게 없으면서 못하게만 하는 사람이 꼭 있죠.  
EN: That is just the way with some people who don't know anything about some things and forbid them.  

KO: 그녀의 언니 왓슨 아가씨는 큰 안경을 낀 노처녀였는데, 막 같이 살게 되었습니다.  
EN: Her sister, Miss Watson, and old maid with big glasses, had just come to live with her.  

KO: 그녀는 나에게 알파벳을 가르치려 했는데, 몹시 지루하고 힘들었습니다. 나는 어딘가로, 어디든 가고 싶었습니다.  
EN: She tried to teach me my ABCs, but it was very tiring. I wished I could go somewhere, anywhere.  

KO: 그녀는 ‘발을 거기 올리지 마라, 오리처럼 웅크리지 말라. 왜 얌전히 굴지 않니?’ 라고 했습니다.  
EN: She said, don't put your feet up there, and don't curl up like that huckleberry. Why don't you try to behave?  

KO: 그리고 ‘나쁜 사람들이 가는 곳’에 대해 설명해주었는데, 나는 도리어 “거기 가고 싶다”고 했습니다.  
EN: Then she told me all about the place where bad people go, and I said I wished I was there.  

KO: 그녀는 화를 내며 자기는 좋은 곳에 가고 싶다고 했습니다. 나는 거기에 무슨 이점이 있는지 알 수 없었지만, 더 말하지 않았습니다. 괜한 말썽을 피우고 싶지 않았거든요.  
EN: She got very angry and said she wanted to go to the good place. I couldn't see any advantage in going there, but I kept quiet. I didn't want to make any more trouble.  

KO: 왓슨 아가씨는 ‘짐’이라는 흑인 노예를 거느리고 있었습니다. 어느 날 톰과 나는 짐에게 장난을 쳤죠. 그의 모자를 나무에 걸어두자, 그는 마녀가 한 짓이라고 믿었습니다.  
EN: Miss Watson had a black servant named Jim. Tom and I played a trick on Jim one night. We hung his hat in a tree, and he thought witches had done it.  

KO: 그는 그 이야기를 할 때마다 점점 더 화려하고 자랑스럽게 꾸며서, 나중에는 마치 마녀들이 그를 데리고 전 세계를 돌아다니다가 집에 데려다주고 나무에 모자를 걸고 갔다고까지 말했습니다. 사람들은 그 얘기를 들으려고 모여들었습니다.  
EN: He became very proud, and every time he told the story, he made it more surprising. Finally, he was telling everyone that the witches carried him all over the world and brought him home, leaving his hat in a tree to remind him. People came from all over to talk to him about the witches.  



## Scene 2 아버지가 헉의 새 삶에 끼어들다  
(Scene 2 Dad starts in on Huck's new life)

KO: 어느 날 톰과 나는 친구들을 찾으러 나갔습니다. 조 하퍼와 벤 로저스를 만났죠.  
EN: Tom and I went out one day to find our friends, Joe Harper and Ben Rogers.  

KO: 우리는 모두 함께 배를 타고 약 두어 마일 반쯤 강을 따라 내려갔습니다.  
EN: Then we all got in a boat together and went down the river about two and a half miles.  

KO: 거기서 모임을 열고 ‘톰 소여의 갱단’이라는 우리의 모임을 시작했습니다.  
EN: There we had a meeting and started our group called Tom Sawyer's Gang.  

KO: 우리는 누구에게도 비밀을 누설하지 않겠다고 약속했습니다.  
EN: We promised never to tell our group secrets to anyone.  

KO: 만약 누설하면, 다른 멤버들이 우리를 죽이기로 했습니다.  
EN: If we did, the other members would kill us.  

KO: 그래서 모두 자기 이름을 피로 서명했습니다.  
EN: Then we all signed our names in blood.  

KO: 나는 아버지를 1년 넘게 보지 못했습니다. 그게 나에겐 오히려 다행이었죠. 더는 보고 싶지 않았으니까요.  
EN: I had not seen my father for more than a year. It was nice for me because I didn't want to see him anymore.  

KO: 그는 술을 마시지 않을 때도 늘 나를 때렸습니다.  
EN: He used to beat me whenever he was not drinking.  

KO: 그래서 아버지가 마을에 있을 때는 나는 대부분 숲에 몸을 숨겼습니다.  
EN: Therefore, I used to stay in the woods most of the time when he was in town.  

KO: 석 달, 넉 달 후 겨울이 깊게 들어섰습니다. 나는 거의 매일 학교에 나갔습니다. 조금은 글을 읽고 쓰고, 간단한 덧셈도 할 수 있게 되었습니다.  
EN: Well, three or four months went along and it was well into winter now. I had been to school most all the time and could spell and read and write just a little and could say the multiplication table up to six times seven is forty-two.  

KO: 처음에는 학교가 싫었지만, 점점 익숙해졌습니다.  
EN: At first I hated school, but slowly I got used to it.  

KO: 공부에 질릴 때면 나는 숲에서 잠을 자기도 했습니다.  
EN: Whenever I got very tired of going to school, I slept out in the woods.  

KO: 어느 날 아침, 나는 아침 식사 중 소금통을 엎질렀습니다. 그건 불운의 징조라 했습니다.  
EN: One morning, I knocked over the salt shaker at breakfast. This was a sign of bad luck.  

KO: 그래서 불운을 막으려고 어깨 너머로 소금을 뿌리려 했지만, 더글라스 미망인이 막았습니다. ‘지저분하다’는 이유였죠.  
EN: I tried to throw some over my shoulder to keep off the bad luck, but Widow Douglas stopped me. She said I was making a mess.  

KO: 나는 정말 불운이 겁났습니다. 그래서 대처 판사를 찾아가 내 돈, 6천 달러를 모두 그에게 맡기기로 했습니다.  
EN: I was real scared about the bad luck, so I decided to go see Judge Thatcher. I told him to keep my money, all the six thousand dollars.  

KO: 그는 이유를 물었지만, 나는 “차라리 묻지 말라, 나는 거짓말하기 싫다”고 했습니다. 단지 그에게 내 돈을 주고 싶다고 했습니다.  
EN: He asked me why, I told him. Don't ask me any questions that I won't have to tell any lies. I just want to give you my money.  

KO: 그는 알아들었는지, “돈을 파는 거구나”하며 서류를 써주고 1달러를 내게 주었습니다. 나는 서류에 서명했고, 그렇게 하고 떠났습니다.  
EN: Oh I see, you want to sell me your six thousand dollars. He replied and wrote out something on a piece of paper which he handed me. There now, you sign here and I will buy your money. Here's a dollar for it. He said, so I signed it and left.  

KO: 미스 왓슨의 흑인 하인, 짐은 손바닥만 한 커다란 털 뭉치를 가지고 있었는데, 그것이 소의 제4위에서 나온 것이라 했습니다. 그는 그걸로 점을 보곤 했습니다. 영혼이 들어 있다고 믿었죠.  
EN: Miss Watson's black servant Jim had a hairball as big as your hand. He said it came out of the fourth stomach of a cow. He used to do magic with it. He said there was a spirit inside it and that it knew everything.  

KO: 나는 짐에게 아버지 이야기를 물었습니다. 짐은 털뭉치에 물은 후 말했다.  
EN: So I asked him about my father. Their spirits talked to Jim and Jim told me what it said.  

KO: “네 아버지는 뭘 할지 모른다. 떠날까 하다가도 머물까 하고. 네가 할 일은 걱정하지 말고 그가 알아서 하게 두는 거다.”  
EN: Your old man doesn't know what he is going to do. Sometimes he thinks he will go away and sometimes he thinks he will stay. The best thing you can do is stop worrying and let the old man make up his own mind.  

KO: 그날 밤 내 방에 올라와 촛불을 켰을 때, 아버지가 거기 앉아 있었다. 나는 분명 문을 잠갔는데 말이다.  
EN: When I lit my candle and went up to my room that night, there sat father, his own self. I had shut the door and there he was.  

KO: 나는 늘 그를 두려워했기 때문에 가슴이 철렁했다. 그는 날 매번 두들겨 팼으니까. 하지만 첫 충격이 지나자 두렵지 않았다.  
EN: I used to be afraid of him all the time. He had hit me so much that I was still scared of him even now. After the first shock of seeing him, I wasn't scared of him anymore.  

KO: 그는 쉰 살쯤 되어 보였다. 머리카락은 길고 기름진 채 엉겨 내려왔고, 수염은 시커멓게 뒤덮여 있었다. 피부는 창백했다. 마치 물고기 뱃살 같은 희끗거림이었다.  
EN: He was about 50 and he looked it. His hair was long, messy and oily and it hung down. You could see his eyes shining through as though he was standing behind vines. It was all black, no gray. So was his beard. There was no color in his face, it was white. But not like another man's white. It was white to make you feel sick, a fish belly white.  

KO: 옷은 더럽고 찢겼다. 신발은 찢겨 발가락이 튀어나와 있었다. 그는 나를 바라봤고, 나도 그를 바라봤다.  
EN: As for his clothes, they were all dirty and torn. He had his foot resting on his knee and two of his toes were coming out of the broken shoe. I stood looking at him and he stood looking at me.  

KO: 이어 그가 말했다. “옷차림이 번듯하구나. 이제 제법 잘난 체하는구나?”  
EN: Then he said, Beautiful clothes, very beautiful. You think you are a big cheese now, don't you?  

KO: 나는 “그럴 수도 있고 아닐 수도 있지”라 했지만, 그는 “자네는 글을 읽고 쓸 줄 알지. 이제 아버지보다 낫다고 생각하는 건가?” 하고 화를 냈다.  
EN: Maybe I am, maybe I am not. I replied, Don't talk to me like that, he said. You are educated they say, you can read and write. You think you are better than your father now, don't you?  

KO: 그는 “학교는 당장 그만둬라”고 했다. “엄마도, 집안 누구도 배우지 못했다. 네가 아버지보다 낫다고 하는 소리를 듣고만 있지 않겠다.”  
EN: Because he can't. Look here, you drop out of that school you hear. Your mother couldn't read and write either. None of the family could. I am not a man to listen to other people say that you are better than your father.  

KO: 그는 “책 읽어봐라”고 했다. 내가 읽자 그는 곧 책을 빼앗아 던졌다. 그러고는 중얼거리며 으르렁댔다.  
EN: Let me hear you read. I took up a book and began reading. After a while, he took the book and threw it across the room. He sat there growling and mumbling a minute.  

KO: 그러고는 “네 방엔 침대도 있고 잠옷도 있지만 아비는 무두장 마당에서 잔다. 네가 부자라지? 거짓말이지?” 하며 따졌다.  
EN: And then he said, Aren't you a little gentleman now? With a bed and pajamas, your own father sleeps in the tanning yard. They say you are rich, how's that possible? They tell lies, that's how.  

KO: 그는 돈을 요구했다. 나는 판사에게 돈을 맡겼다 하였으나, 아버지는 믿지 않았다. 결국 내 주머니의 1달러를 빼앗아 위스키를 샀다.  
EN: I replied, Look here, don't try to act smarter than me. I have been in town for the last two days. Get me that money tomorrow, I want it. I haven't got any money. That's a lie, Judge Thatcher's got it. You get it, I want it. I have no money, ask Judge Thatcher, he will tell you so. All right, I'll ask him. But how much do you have in your pocket? Give me that money. I have a dollar, but I want to keep it for, never mind what for. Give it to me. He took it, then he said he was going to get some whiskey.  

KO: 다음날 아버지는 취해 있었다. “학교를 다니면 때려죽이겠다”고 협박했다. 나는 어쩔 수 없이 판사에게서 돈을 얻어 그에게 갖다주기도 했다.  
EN: He came back to tell me again that I should drop out of school, or he would hit me very hard. The next day he was drunk. He said he was going to hit me until I was black and blue, if I didn't find some money to give him. So I borrowed three dollars from Judge Thatcher. Pop took that and got drunk again.  

KO: 그래도 나는 학교를 놓지 않았다. 아버지는 술에 취해 감옥에 잡혀가길 반복했다. 미망인 더글라스는 그를 싫어해 내게서 떨어지라고 경고했다.  
EN: I didn't stop going to school. Pop caught me sometimes, but I ran away from him, or I would borrow some money from Judge Thatcher and give it to him. When Pop got drunk, he made trouble, and then he got put in prison. Widow Douglas didn't like Pop. She told him to stay away.  

KO: 그러나 그는 “헉 핀의 주인은 내가 누군지 보여주겠다”며 나를 찾아 강 상류 오두막에 가뒀다. 숲 깊은 곳의 오두막은 도망치기 어려웠다.  
EN: She said that if he didn't stop bothering me, that she would make trouble for him. He said he would show who Huck Finn's boss was. So he looked for me, and one day he caught me, and took me upriver three miles. We crossed over to the Illinois shore. There was an old wooden cabin. The trees were so thick that anyone would get lost if you didn't know the area very well.  

KO: 나는 늘 안에 갇혀야 했고, 아버지는 열쇠를 머리맡에 두고 잤다. 총 한 자루를 가지고 있었고, 때때로 술을 얻으러 내려가고, 돌아오면 나를 때렸다.  
EN: Pop kept me with him at all times. I could never run away. We lived in that old cabin. He always locked the door and put the key under his head at night. He had a gun which he had stolen, I guess. We fished and hunted, and that was how we lived. Every little while, he locked me in and went down to the store to trade fish and game for whiskey. He came back, then he got drunk, then he beat me.  

KO: 하지만 혼자 숲에서 지내는 건 나쁘지 않았다. 책도 없고 공부도 없었다. 게으르게 쉬고 낚시하며 지냈다. 두 달쯤 지나자 옷은 다 찢어지고 더러워졌지만, 씻을 필요도 없었고 마음은 편했다.  
EN: It was kind of fun for me alone all day out there in the woods. I was comfortable and lazy, smoking and fishing, no books and no study. Two months or so passed. My clothes were all torn and dirty. I didn't have to wash out there like I had to do at Miss Douglas's. Those were pretty good times up in the woods there.  

KO: 그러나 아버지의 매질은 점점 심해졌다. 그는 며칠씩 사라졌다가, 나를 오두막에 가두곤 했다. 외롭고 두려웠다. 나는 탈출할 길을 찾아냈다. 다리 없는 낡은 톱이 있어 벽을 톱질해 구멍을 뚫기 시작했다.  
EN: I didn't want to go back to town, but Pop was getting too free with his stick. I couldn't stand it. He had started to stay away for days together. He locked me in the cabin when he was gone. It was terribly lonely. I decided to find a way to leave the cabin. I couldn't find any way out. So I hunted through the place and at last I found something. An old wood saw without a handle. I oiled it and went to work.  

KO: 거의 나갈 만큼 구멍을 뚫었을 때, 아버지의 총성이 숲에서 들려왔다. 나는 얼른 흔적을 가리고 기다렸다.  
EN: There was an old horse blanket nailed against the wall behind the table. I raised the blanket and began to saw a hole in the wooden wall. I was almost finished making a hole big enough for me to climb through when I heard my Pop's gun in the woods. I lowered the blanket and cleared the signs of my work.  

KO: 저녁 후 그는 화를 내며 술에 취했고, 한밤중에는 환각 속에서 뱀들이 기어올라 목을 문다고 외쳤다. 그는 칼을 들고 나를 쫓아다니며 죽이겠다 소리쳤다. 그러나 곧 지쳐 문가에 쓰러졌다.  
EN: After supper, Pop started to curse everybody in town because everything was going wrong for him. He said the court would take a long time before they gave him money. He took the bottle of whiskey and drank and drank. In the middle of the night, I heard a terrible scream. Pop looked wild. He was jumping around the cabin and shouting. Snakes! They're crawling up my legs! Take them off! They're biting me in the neck! He shouted, but I couldn't see any snakes. Then he chased me round and round the place with a knife. He said that I wanted to kill him, so he was going to kill me first. But pretty soon he got tired, dropped against the door and fell asleep.  





## Scene 3 섬에서 짐을 만나다  
(Scene 3 – Meeting Jim on the Island)

KO: 해가 중천에 떠 있을 때에야 깨어났다. 몹시 배가 고팠다. 카누에서 덫들을 꺼내 두꺼운 숲속에 조그만 야영지를 만들었다. 담요로 텐트 같은 것을 쳤다.  
EN: The sun was up high when I woke up. I was pretty hungry. I got my traps out of the canoe and made a nice camp in the thick woods. I made a kind of tent out of my blankets.  

KO: 메기를 잡아 톱으로 갈라 손질했다. 해 질 무렵 모닥불을 피우고 저녁을 지어 먹었다. ‘이제 괜찮다, 아무도 날 찾으러 오지 않겠다’는 생각이 들었다. 그렇게 사흘 낮과 밤을 보냈다.  
EN: I caught a catfish and opened him with my saw. Towards sundown I started a campfire and had supper. I knew I was alright now. Nobody would come hunting after me. And so I spent three days and nights there.  

KO: 그 다음 날, 섬을 돌아다니며 탐험하기 시작했다. 이 섬은 다 내 것이니, 모두 알아두고 싶었다. 숲 너머에서 아직 연기가 나는 모닥불을 발견했다.  
EN: But the next day I went exploring around the island. It all belonged to me, so I wanted to know all about it. As I was searching I found a campfire which was still smoking, away through the trees.  

KO: 이윽고 가까이 다가가 보니, 땅바닥에 한 남자가 누워 자고 있었다. 이내 그는 몸을 뒤척이며 기지개를 켜고 담요를 걷었다. 왓슨 아가씨의 하인 짐이었다. 나는 무척 기뻐 인사했다. “짐, 안녕!”  
EN: By and by I was close enough to have a look. There was a man sleeping on the ground. Pretty soon he rolled over and stretched. Then he threw off the blanket. It was Jim from Miss Watson's. I was sure glad to see him, I said. Why Jim, hello.  

KO: 짐은 깜짝 놀라 뒷걸음치며 나를 바라보다가, 무릎을 꿇고 두 손을 모았다. “날 해치지 마오, 제발. 나는 죽은 사람들을 늘 좋아했고 최선을 다해 도와왔소. 그러니 강으로 돌아가시오. 짐은 해치지 마오. 난 늘 그대의 친구였소.”  
EN: He jumped back and stared at me. Then he dropped down on his knees, put his hands together and said. Don't hurt me, don't. I always liked dead people and done all I could for them. You go and get in the river again where you belong. Don't do anything to old Jim. I was always your friend.  

KO: 나는 곧 그에게 설명해 내가 죽지 않았음을 알렸다. 나도 그를 만나 너무 기뻤다. 이제 우리는 서로에게 의지할 수 있었다. 저녁을 함께 먹은 후 짐이 물었다. “그런데 헉, 그럼 오두막에서 죽은 사람은 누구였지?” 그래서 나는 모든 이야기를 들려주었다.  
EN: Well, I soon made him understand that I wasn't dead. I was so glad to see him. Now we had each other. After we had eaten our dinner, Jim asked. But look here, Huck. Who was it that was killed in the cabin if it wasn't you? So I told him the whole story.  

KO: 그리고 짐에게 물었다. “짐, 그럼 넌 왜 여기에 있는 거야?” 잠시 침묵하다가 짐은 말했다. “차라리 말하지 않는 게 나을지도… 하지만 헉, 자넬 믿네. 사실 난 도망쳐 나온 거야.”  
EN: Then I asked him. So, why are you here, Jim? He didn't say anything for a minute. Then he said. Maybe I'd better not tell. Why Jim? Well, I trust you, Huck, so I will tell you. I ran away.  

KO: 그는 설명을 이어갔다. “어느 날밤 왓슨 아가씨가 집에서 내가 뉴올리언스로 팔려 갈 수 있다고 말하는 걸 들었네. 그녀는 팔고 싶지 않았지만 800달러를 받을 수 있다더군. 너무 큰돈이라 망설이지 않을 거라는 걸 알았지. 그 얘기를 다 듣지도 않고 곧장 떠났네.”  
EN: This is how it happened. One night I heard Miss Watson in the house talking about selling me in New Orleans. She didn't want to sell me, but she thought she could get $800 if she did. That's a big pile of money. Old Mrs. Douglas tried to tell her that she didn't have to sell me, but I didn't wait to hear the end of the conversation. I left real quick.  

KO: “밤이 되자 강으로 내려가 널빤지를 밀고 나갔네. 때마침 큰 판자 뗏목이 떠내려와 올라탔어. 이 섬 근처에 이를 때 뗏목에서 내려와 상륙했지. 챙겨온 파이프와 성냥이 모자 속에 있었는데 젖지도 않았네. 그래서 괜찮았네.”  
EN: Let me tell you. Well, when it was dark, I walked into the river and pushed a piece of wood in front of me. Then a raft of big boards came downstream. So I climbed on. When the raft came past this island, I got off and came on land. I had my pipe and some matches in my cap. They weren't wet, so I was alright.  



## Scene 4 섬에서 짐과 함께  
(Scene 4 – Living on the Island with Jim)

KO: 해가 높이 솟아 있을 때 눈을 떴다. 배가 무척 고팠다. 카누에서 덫을 꺼내 두꺼운 숲속에 작은 야영지를 차렸다. 담요로 작은 천막 같은 것을 만들었다.  
EN: The sun was up high when I woke up. I was pretty hungry. I got my traps out of the canoe and made a nice camp in the thick woods. I made a kind of tent out of my blankets.  

KO: 메기를 잡아 톱으로 갈라 손질했다. 해가 저물 무렵 모닥불을 피우고 저녁을 지어 먹었다. ‘이제 괜찮다, 아무도 날 찾으러 오지 않겠다’는 생각이 들었다. 그렇게 사흘 낮과 밤을 보냈다.  
EN: I caught a catfish and opened him with my saw. Towards sundown I started a campfire and had supper. I knew I was alright now. Nobody would come hunting after me. And so I spent three days and nights there.  

KO: 그 다음 날, 섬을 탐험하며 돌아다녔다. 이곳은 모두 내 것이었으니, 모조리 알고 싶었다. 그러다 숲 공간 너머에서 아직 연기가 피어오르는 모닥불을 발견했다.  
EN: But the next day I went exploring around the island. It all belonged to me, so I wanted to know all about it. As I was searching I found a campfire which was still smoking, away through the trees.  

KO: 이윽고 가까이 다가가 보니, 땅바닥에 한 남자가 누워 자고 있었다. 곧 그는 몸을 뒤척이며 기지개를 켰고, 담요를 걷어내었다. 왓슨 아가씨의 노예 짐이었다. 나는 너무 반가워 소리쳤다. “짐, 안녕!”  
EN: By and by I was close enough to have a look. There was a man sleeping on the ground. Pretty soon he rolled over and stretched. Then he threw off the blanket. It was Jim from Miss Watson's. I was sure glad to see him, I said. Why Jim, hello.  

KO: 짐은 화들짝 놀라 주춤하며 나를 뚫어지게 보더니, 무릎을 꿇고 두 손을 모았다. “날 해치지 마오! 난 죽은 사람들을 늘 좋아했고 최선을 다해 도와왔소. 제발 강물로 돌아가오. 짐을 해치지 마시오. 난 늘 그대의 친구였소.”  
EN: He jumped back and stared at me. Then he dropped down on his knees, put his hands together and said. Don't hurt me, don't. I always liked dead people and done all I could for them. You go and get in the river again where you belong. Don't do anything to old Jim. I was always your friend.  

KO: 나는 그에게 내가 죽지 않았음을 설명해주었다. 짐을 만나 너무 기뻤고, 이제 우리는 서로 의지할 수 있게 되었다. 저녁을 함께 먹고 난 뒤, 짐은 물었다. “그럼, 헉. 오두막에서는 누가 죽은 거지?” 나는 모든 사정을 다 이야기해 주었다.  
EN: Well, I soon made him understand that I wasn't dead. I was so glad to see him. Now we had each other. After we had eaten our dinner, Jim asked. But look here, Huck. Who was it that was killed in the cabin if it wasn't you? So I told him the whole story.  

KO: 나는 짐에게 다시 물었다. “짐, 그런데 넌 여길 왜 온 거야?” 그는 잠시 침묵하더니 말했다. “차라리 말하지 않는 게 나았을지 몰라… 하지만 헉, 널 믿기에 말하지. 난 도망쳐 나온 거야.”  
EN: Then I asked him. So, why are you here, Jim? He didn't say anything for a minute. Then he said. Maybe I'd better not tell. Why Jim? Well, I trust you, Huck, so I will tell you. I ran away.  

KO: 짐은 설명을 이어갔다. “어느 날 밤, 왓슨 아가씨가 나를 뉴올리언스로 팔아넘길까 말하는 걸 들었네. 그녀는 원치 않았지만, $800을 받을 수 있다고 하더군. 큰돈이지. 그래서 얘기 끝까지 듣지도 않고 빨리 달아났어.”  
EN: This is how it happened. One night I heard Miss Watson in the house talking about selling me in New Orleans. She didn't want to sell me, but she thought she could get $800 if she did. That's a big pile of money. Old Mrs. Douglas tried to tell her that she didn't have to sell me, but I didn't wait to hear the end of the conversation. I left real quick.  

KO: “밤이 되자 강에 들어가 널빤지를 밀며 떠내려갔네. 그때 큰 판자 뗏목이 떠내려와서 나는 올라탔어. 뗏목이 섬 근처에 이르자 내렸지. 모자 속에 넣어 둔 담배 파이프와 성냥이 젖지 않아 괜찮았네.”  
EN: Well, when it was dark, I walked into the river and pushed a piece of wood in front of me. Then a raft of big boards came downstream. So I climbed on. When the raft came past this island, I got off and came on land. I had my pipe and some matches in my cap. They weren't wet, so I was alright.  





## Scene 5 떠내려온 죽음의 집  
(Scene 5 – The House of Death Floats by)

KO: “짐, 내가 얼마 전 보았던 섬 중간쯤에 있는 곳을 좀 보러 가자.” 내가 말했고, 둘이 함께 길을 떠났다.  
EN: Jim, come with me to look at a place right about the middle of the island that I saw a while back. I said and we set off.  

KO: 섬은 폭이 겨우 3마일쯤이어서 곧 내가 보고 싶었던 곳에 다다를 수 있었다. 언덕이 약 40피트 높이로 솟아 있었다.  
EN: The island was only 3 miles wide, so we soon came to the place I wanted to see. There was a hill about 40 feet high.  

KO: 올라가 보니 커다란 동굴이 있었다. 안쪽에 두세 개 넓은 방 정도 크기의 공간이 있었다. 짐도 똑바로 설 수 있었다.  
EN: We climbed up and found a big cave there. It had space inside, like two or three big rooms. Jim could stand up straight in it.  

KO: 우리는 카누를 가져와 동굴 근처에 숨겼다. 강가에서 보이지 않도록 가지 밑에 가렸다. 물고기를 잡아다가 저녁 준비를 했다. 동굴 안에 담요를 깔아 양탄자처럼 쓰고 그곳에서 식사를 했다. 이후 모든 살림살이를 동굴 뒤편에 두었다.  
EN: So we went back and got the canoe and brought it near the cave. We hid it under branches again so no one on the river would see it. We took some fish off the lines and began to get ready for dinner. We spread blankets inside for a carpet and ate our dinner there. Then we put all our things at the back of the cave.  

KO: 곧 폭풍과 비가 시작되었다. 강은 10~12일 동안 불어나 마침내 제방을 넘쳤다.  
EN: Soon it started to storm and rain. The river went on rising and rising for 10 or 12 days. Finally it ran over its banks.  

KO: 어느 날 밤, 우리는 뗏목 조각 하나를 붙잡았다. 크기는 약 12피트 × 16피트 정도, 단단하고 평평한 바닥이었다. 또 다른 밤, 새벽 무렵에는 낡은 나무집 한 채가 강물을 타고 떠내려왔다. 집은 많이 기울어 있었다.  
EN: One night we caught part of a raft. It was about 12 feet wide by 16 feet long, a solid level floor. Another night, just before daylight, here comes a wooden house down the river. The house was leaning over considerably.  

KO: 우리는 카누를 타고 접근해 2층 창문으로 들어갔다. 옅은 아침빛 속에 침대와 탁자, 낡은 의자 두 개가 보였다. 그리고 구석 바닥에는 사람처럼 보이는 것이 누워 있었다.  
EN: We went out in the canoe and climbed into the house at an upstairs window. In the early daylight we could see a bed and a table and two old chairs. And something like a man lying on the floor in the far corner.  

KO: 짐이 말했다. “이봐, 당신!” 그러나 그는 움직이지 않았다. 내가 소리쳐 보았지만 역시였다. 짐이 말했다. “그는 자는 게 아니라 죽은 거네. 가서 보겠네.”  
EN: So Jim said, Hello you! But he didn't move, so I shouted to him. Then Jim said, That man isn't asleep, he's dead, I'm going in to look.  

KO: 짐은 창문으로 들어가 시체 가까이에 갔다. “확실히 죽었네. 등에 총을 맞았어. 들어오되, 얼굴은 보지 마라. 너무 끔찍하네.” 나는 그의 얼굴을 전혀 보지 않았다. 바닥에는 낡은 카드들과 빈 위스키병들이 흩어져 있었다.  
EN: Old Jim climbed in the window and went near the body. It's a dead man, yes indeed, he's been shot in the back. Come in but don't look at his face, it's too horrible. I didn't look at him at all. There were plenty of old cards lying on the floor and old whiskey bottles.  

KO: 낡은 여자옷 두 벌과 남자 옷도 있었다. 우리는 그 옷들을 카누에 담았다. 또 오래된 램프, 반짝이는 새 칼, 많은 양초, 양은컵, 단추, 못, 약병, 낚싯줄, 말편자도 챙겼다. 떠나려는 순간 짐은 나무 의족 하나도 발견했다. 꽤 쓸만한 수확이었다.  
EN: There were two old dresses and some men's clothes too. We put all the clothes in the canoe. We also took an old lamp and a shiny new knife, a lot of candle, a tin cup, buttons, some nails, bottles of medicine, a fish line and a horseshoe. Just as we were leaving Jim found a wooden leg, so it was a pretty good find.  

KO: 아침 식사 후 나는 그 죽은 남자에 대해 이야기하고, 왜 죽었을지 추측하고 싶었다. 그러나 짐은 원하지 않았다. 그가 말했다. “그 이야기를 꺼내면 불운이 우리에게 닥칠 걸세.”  
EN: After breakfast I wanted to talk about the dead man and guess how he came to be killed. But Jim didn't want to. He said it would bring bad luck to us if we talked about it.  



## Scene 6 헉의 변장과 마을 소식  
(Scene 6 Huck in disguise and news from town)

KO: 며칠이 지나면서 강물은 다시 제자리를 찾아가 제방 안으로 흘렀다. 우리는 하루 종일 낚시하며 지냈다. 일은 느긋해지고 흥미롭지 않았다.  
EN: Well, the days went along and the river went down between its banks again. We started fishing all day. Things were getting slow and not very interesting.  

KO: 다음날 아침, 나는 강 건너 마을로 가서 소식을 알아볼까 생각했다. 짐도 그 생각이 좋다고 했다. 그는 내가 여자 옷을 입고 가는 게 좋겠다고 제안했다. 나는 그게 좋은 계획이라 생각했다. 여자를 위한 옷 하나를 줄여 입었고, 바지는 무릎 위로 걷어 올렸다. 밀짚 모자를 챙겨 턱 밑에 매듭지었다. 그날 하루 동안 여자처럼 행동하는 연습을 했다.  
EN: The next morning, I thought of going across the river to find out what the latest news was. Jim liked that idea. He suggested that I should wear one of the ladies' dresses. I thought that was a good plan. We shortened one for me to wear. I turned my trousers up on my legs. I put on the sun hat and tied it under my chin. Then, I practiced acting like a girl for a while that day so I could get used to it.  

KO: 그날 밤 나는 조용히 카누를 타고 일리노이 강둑으로 향했다. 카누를 묶고, 불빛이 새어 나오는 작은 집을 발견했다. 창문으로 보니, 마흔 살가량 된 여자가 촛불 아래서 뜨개질을 하고 있었다.  
EN: That night, I quietly set out in the canoe. I headed for the Illinois shore. I tied the canoe on the bank when I reached there. I saw a light in a little house. When I looked in the window, I saw a woman about forty years old knitting by candlelight.  

KO: 나는 누구인지 몰랐지만, 그녀도 나를 모를 테니 잘 됐다 생각했다. 마을 소식을 들을 수 있겠다고 여겼다. 문을 두드리니, 그녀가 말했다. “들어오너라.” 그래서 들어가자 그녀는 “의자에 앉으렴” 했다.  
EN: I didn't know who she was. I thought it was a good thing she wouldn't know me, but I thought I could find out all the latest news from town from her. So I knocked at her door. Come in. She said, so I did. Take a chair. She added, I did.  

KO: “네 이름이 뭐니?” “사라 윌리엄스예요.” 나는 대답했다. “어디 사니?” “훅커빌이에요. 하류로 7마일쯤 돼요. 오늘 하루 종일 걸어와서 너무 피곤해요. 엄마는 아프고 돈도 없어서 삼촌 압나모어를 찾으러 왔어요. 처음 와봤어요. 삼촌 아세요?”  
EN: What might your name be? She asked, Sarah Williams. I replied, Where do you live? In Hookerville, seven miles downstream. I walked all the way from home today and I am so tired. My mother's sick and out of money. I am looking for my uncle Abnamor. I haven't ever been here before. Do you know my uncle?  

KO: “아니, 난 몰라. 이사 온 지 이 주밖에 안 돼. 하지만 얘야, 오늘 밤은 여기서 자고 가는 게 좋을 거야.”  
EN: Oh no, I don't. I've only lived here for two weeks, but you had better spend the night here, child.  

KO: “고맙지만 잠깐 쉬었다가 곧 가야 해요.” 나는 대답했다. 그러나 그녀는 혼자가게 두지 않겠다며, 남편이 함께 데려다 줄 거라 했다. 그녀는 남편과 친척 얘기를 계속했다. 그리고 마침내 아버지와 살인 사건 얘기를 꺼냈다.  
EN: Thank you, but I will just rest for a little, then I will go on. She said she wouldn't let me go by myself. She said her husband would take me along with him. Then she talked about her husband and her family relations up the river. On and on she talked. Then at last, she talked about my pop and the murder.  

KO: 그녀는 말했다. “내 생각엔 그 늙은이가 직접 한 건 아닌 것 같아. 처음엔 사람들이 다 헉을 죽인 게 아버지라고 여겼지. 취해서 아이를 죽였다고. 하지만 이내 마음을 바꿔, 도망친 흑인 노예 짐이 했을 거라고들 말해.”  
EN: I don't think the old man did it himself. She said. At first, most people thought he got drunk and killed his poor little boy, Huck. But then people chained their minds and they decided that an old, runaway black slave named Jim probably killed him.  

KO: 나는 깜짝 놀라 말을 멈췄다. 조용히 있는 게 최선이라 생각했다. 그녀는 말을 이어갔다. “짐은 헉이 죽은 그날 밤 도망갔어. 짐을 잡아오면 300달러, 헉 아버지를 잡아오면 200달러의 현상금을 건 거야.”  
EN: Why? I stopped. I thought I had better keep quiet. She went on. Jim ran off the same night that Huck was killed. There is three hundred dollars for anyone that finds him and two hundred dollars for anybody who finds the old man, Huck's father.  

KO: “내 생각엔 짐이 이 근처에 있어. 잭슨 섬이 가까우니 말야. 난 연기도 본 것 같아. 우리 남편은 그 흑인을 잡으러 갈 거야. 자정 이후에 떠날 거야. 그때는 짐이 자고 있을 테니 쉽게 잡을 수 있지.”  
EN: I think Jim is near here. Jackson Island is so close. Hardly anybody goes over there and I think I saw some smoke over there. My husband is going over there to hunt for the black man. When she said that, I felt terribly nervous. I couldn't sit still. Is he going over there tonight? I asked. Yes. He has gone to get the boat now. They'll go over after midnight. Then the black man is likely to be asleep. They will easily find his campfire and him.  

KO: 나는 잔뜩 초조해졌다. 그녀는 내 이름을 다시 물었다. “사라 윌리엄스입니다.” “근데 넌 처음에 사라라더니, 방금은 메리라고 안 했니?”  
EN: The woman kept looking at me strangely. I didn't feel at all comfortable. Pretty soon, she said. What did you say your name was, honey? Mary Williams. Honey, I thought you said it was Sarah when you came in.  

KO: “아, 네, 사라 메리 윌리엄스죠.”라고 얼버무렸다. 그녀는 수긍했지만 이내 내가 소년임을 눈치챘다. 나에게 “진짜 이름이 뭐니? 빌? 톰? 밥?” 하며 부드럽게 다그쳤다. 나는 떨며 결국 실토했다.  
EN: Oh, yes, ma'am, I did. Sarah Mary Williams. I see. She replied. Then she started to talk… Then she looked me straight in the face. Very pleasantly, she said. Come now. What is your real name? Is it Bill or Tom or Bob? What is it? I was shaking like a leaf, and I didn't know what to say. Now, I'm not going to hurt you or tell on you. Tell me all about it now. That's a good boy.  

KO: 그래서 나는 고백했다. 부모는 돌아가셨고, 못된 농부 밑에서 일을 하다가 도망쳐 나왔다고. 농부 딸의 낡은 옷을 훔쳐 입고 삼촌을 찾으러 고센에 왔다고. “사흘 전 떠나왔어요.”라고 했다. 그녀는 말했다. “여긴 고센이 아니라 세인트피터즈버그란다.”  
EN: I said, OK, I'll tell you everything, because it's no use hiding things from you now. Then I told her that my father and mother were dead, and that I had to work hard for an unkind old farmer. Then I told her I decided to run away. I took some of his daughter's old clothes and came looking for my uncle, who lives here in this town of Goshen. I left three days ago, I said. This isn't Goshen, she said. This is St. Petersburg.  

KO: 그녀는 내게 질문을 던졌다. “소가 누워있을 때, 어느 쪽부터 일어서니?” 나는 대답했다. “뒷다리요, 부인.” “그럼 말은?” “앞다리지요, 부인.” 그녀는 웃으며, “그래, 너는 시골 출신이군. 하지만 네 진짜 이름은 뭐니?” 나는 대답했다. “조지 피터스입니다, 부인.”  
EN: Then she asked me, when a cow's lying down, which end of her gets up first? The back end, ma'am, I replied. Then what about a horse? She continued, the front end, ma'am. If there are 15 cows feeding on a hillside, how many of them eat with their head pointed in the same direction? All of them, ma'am. Well it does seem you have lived in the country. What's your real name now? George Peters, ma'am.  

KO: 그녀는 말했다. “그래, 그 이름은 잊지 말거라. 그리고 여장을 한 채 여자들 앞에 가지 마라. 영 어울리지 않으니. 어서 삼촌에게 가거라. 사라, 메리, 윌리엄스, 조지 피터스!” 나는 서둘러 그녀 집을 나왔다. 그리고 카누를 묶어둔 곳에 가서 재빨리 섬으로 돌아왔다.  
EN: Well, don't forget your name again, George, and don't wear girls clothes around women. You don't make a very good girl. Listen, girls throw over their heads, and they always miss the aim by six or seven feet. Now run along to your uncle, Sarah, Mary, William, George Peters. I left there as quickly as possible. I found my canoe tied to the bank where I had left it. I jumped in and hurried over to the island.  



## Scene 7 아슬아슬한 도망  
(Scene 7 – Narrow Escape)  

KO: 내가 동굴에 도착했을 때 짐은 바닥에 누워 자고 있었다. 나는 그를 깨워 말했다. “일어나, 짐! 지금은 지체할 틈이 없어. 그들이 우릴 쫓고 있어.” 짐은 질문도, 말도 하지 않았다. 30분 만에 우리가 가진 모든 것을 뗏목 위에 올려놓았다.  
EN: When I got to the cave Jim was asleep on the ground. I woke him and said, Get up and move yourself Jim, there isn't a minute to lose there after us. Jim didn't ask any questions, he didn't say a word. In 30 minutes everything we owned was on the raft.  

KO: 나는 강 위를 내다보며 배가 오는지 살폈지만 잘 볼 수 없었다. 카누를 뗏목에 묶고 조용히 강으로 밀어냈다. 곧 섬이 멀어졌다. 뗏목은 느리게 움직이는 듯했다. 나는 집에서 만난 여자 이야기를 짐에게 들려주었다. 짐이 다시 왓슨 아가씨에게 팔려 뉴올리언스로 끌려가는 건 원치 않았다.  
EN: I looked out over the river to see if a boat was coming but I couldn't see clearly. I tied the canoe onto the raft and quietly pushed out into the river. Soon the island was far behind. The raft seemed to move slowly. I told Jim about the woman in the house. I didn't want Jim to get sent back to Miss Watson and sold in New Orleans.  

KO: 우리는 비에 젖지 않도록 텐트가 필요했기에, 짐은 뗏목 판자 몇 개를 뜯어 담요를 덮어 씌웠다. 가운데에 흙을 조금 쌓아 불을 피우기도 했다. 장대에 램프를 달아 강을 오가는 대형 증기선에게 신호를 보냈다. 날씨는 좋았고, 삶은 편안했다.  
EN: We needed a tent so Jim took up some of the boards from the raft and put his blanket over it to keep us dry when it rained. In the middle of the tent we put a little pile of dirt and we built a fire there. Then we got a stick and put a lamp on it so we could show it to the big steamships on the river. We had mighty good weather. Life was peaceful.  

KO: 매일 밤 나는 강둑의 작은 마을에 들러 먹을 것을 샀다. 가끔은 길 위에서 닭을 잡아 저녁으로 가져왔다. 이른 아침에는 밭에서 수박이나 호박, 옥수수를 샀다. 때때로 물새를 총으로 쏘아 잡기도 했다. 우리는 낚시를 하고, 헤엄치며, 때때로 그냥 이야기를 나누며 지냈다.  
EN: Every night I used to go on shore into a little village and buy some food. Sometimes I found a chicken in the road and brought him home for dinner. Early in the morning I went into fields and bought a ripe watermelon or pumpkin or some new corn. Now and then we shot a water bird. We caught fish, sometimes took a swim, and sometimes just talked.  

KO: 그러던 어느 날 저녁, 우리는 강둑에 바짝 붙은 난파선을 발견했다. 나는 짐에게 함께 가자고 했다. 다가갔을 때 우리는 “제발 쏘지 마시오!”라는 남자의 목소리를 들었다. 악당들이 안에 있다고 생각한 우리는 곧 물러나 뗏목을 찾으려 했으나, 보이지 않았다. 대신 그들의 배를 타고 뗏목을 찾으러 나섰다.  
EN: One evening we found a wreck lying on the riverbank. I asked Jim to come with me. When we got there we heard a man cry, Please don't shoot me. We thought that there were bad men inside, so we left and tried to find our raft, but it was gone. So we took their boat and went to look for our raft.  

KO: 배 안에는 상자와 신발, 담요, 시가 상자 셋, 책들, 그 외 여러 물건이 있었다. 몇 마일 더 내려가 우리는 마침내 뗏목을 다시 찾았다. 우리는 즐거운 시간을 보냈다.  
EN: There was a box in their boat and boots, blankets, three boxes of cigars, books and lots of other things. At last we found our raft a few miles down river. We had a good time in general.  

KO: 나는 짐에게 책을 읽어주었다. 우리는 왕과 공작, 귀족에 대해 읽었다. 그 옷이 얼마나 화려하고 이상한지. 나는 그에게 말했다. “그들을 부를 때는 ‘폐하, 각하, 경’이라 해야 해. 여자들을 두는 특별한 공간을 ‘하렘’이라 부르지.” 그들은 프랑스어를 쓴다고 설명했다.  
EN: I read to Jim from a book. We read all about kings and dukes and earls, how bright and strange their clothes are. I told him, You have to call them your majesty, your grace, your lordship, and that they have special places for their women called a harem. I told Jim that these dukes and kings speak French and that French people talk different from us.  

KO: “한 마디도 알아들을 수 없다, 짐.” 나는 말했다. 짐이 물었다. “왜 그렇지?” “나도 모르겠어. 하지만 그렇다네.” 나는 짐에게 동물이 각자 다르게 우는 것처럼 사람도 다르게 말한다고 설명했지만, 짐은 “프랑스인도 사람이니까 똑같이 말해야 한다”고 고집했다. 결국 나는 단념했다.  
EN: You couldn't understand a word they said Jim, not one word. How's that, he asked. I don't know but it's so. I told him it's only natural. Look here Jim, can a cat talk like us? No. What about a cow? No. They talk differently. Then isn't it natural and right when a Frenchman talks differently? Jim answered: Is a cat a man, Huck? No. Is a cow a man or a cat? Neither. Well then naturally she doesn't talk like a man or a cat. But is a Frenchman a man? Yes. Well then why doesn't he talk like a man? I saw it wasn't of any use wasting words. You can't teach a simple man to argue so I gave up on him.  

***

## Scene 8 케어로를 놓치다  
(Scene 8 – Missing Cairo)

KO: 우리는 사흘 밤만 더 가면 일리노이 최남단의 케어로에 닿을 것이라 여겼다. 그곳에서 오하이오 강이 합류한다. 우리는 뗏목을 팔고 증기선을 타고 자유 주들로 올라가면 짐은 안전할 것이다.  
EN: We thought that three more nights would get us to Cairo at the bottom of Illinois, where the Ohio River comes in. We would sell the raft and get on a steamboat and go away up the Ohio among the free states, and then old Jim would be safe.  

KO: 우리는 대부분 낮에는 자고 밤에 움직였다. 양쪽은 빽빽한 숲으로 둘러싸여, 강은 넓으나 빛조차 scarcely 보이지 않았다. 우리는 케어로를 볼 수 있을까 걱정하며 강변을 눈여겨보았다.  
EN: We slept most all day and traveled at night. We passed through the wide river. It was walled with solid woods on both sides. There was hardly a break in it, or even a light. We wondered if we would be able to see Cairo when we got there. We kept a close watch on the shore.  

KO: 나는 짐을 생각하기 시작했다. 이제 거의 자유에 닿았는데, 그것은 내가 한 덕분이었다. 하지만 곧 왓슨 아가씨를 떠올렸다. 그녀는 공부와 예절을 가르쳐주려 애썼고, 내게 잘해 주었는데도 나는 말 없이 종을 데려와버린 것이다. 죄책감이 들었다.  
EN: I began to think about Jim. He was almost free now, and I was the reason. Then I thought about poor Miss Watson, who tried to teach me to read, to have good manners. She was good to me, and I took her servant away without saying one word. I felt bad.  

KO: 짐은 말했다. “내가 자유의 땅에 닿으면 돈을 벌어 아내를 사오마. 그녀는 왓슨 아가씨 근처 농장에서 일하지. 그러고 우리 아이 둘도 데려올 거야. 주인이 팔지 않으면 훔쳐라도 올 거야.” 나는 깜짝 놀랐다. 짐은 너무 기뻐 내게 말했다. “곧 자유롭다네, 헉, 다 네 덕분이야. 넌 내게 최고의 친구라네.”  
EN: Jim said. As soon as I get to a free state, I will work and save all my money so that I can buy my wife and bring her here too. She works on a farm near Miss Watson's. Then we will both work to bring our two children. If their master won't sell them, I will have my friends steal them away. I was shocked to hear this. Jim was so happy. Pretty soon, I will be free, and it will all be thanks to Huck. I will never forget you, Huck. You are the best friend I ever had. You are the only friend I have now.  

KO: 나는 ‘짐을 다시 돌려보내야 하나?’ 하고 고민했지만, 결국 그러지 않기로 했다.  
EN: Well, I thought to myself, I can still send Jim back, but I decided not to.  

KO: 어느 날 새벽, 마을을 한 곳 지나쳤지만 그곳은 높은 지대였다. 짐은 케어로는 낮은 지대라며 더 내려가자 했다. 그러나 나는 다음날 알아냈다. 안개 속 지난밤 이미 케어로를 지나쳐버린 것이다. 우리는 거슬러 오를 수 없어 뗏목을 묶어두고 기다렸다.  
EN: We passed a town before daylight, but it was on high ground. Jim said Cairo wasn't on high ground, so we kept moving down river. That night, I took the canoe into shore to find out how far Cairo was. I found out that we had passed Cairo the last night in a fog. We couldn't take the raft upstream, so we tied it to shore and waited for dark.  

KO: 그러나 기다리는 동안 거대한 증기선 하나가 우리에게 들이닥쳤다. 나는 강으로 뛰어들었다. 멀리 떠내려갔지만 짐은 보이지 않았다. 나는 간신히 뭍에 닿았으나 여전히 짐은 안 보였다.  
EN: But while we were waiting, a big steamboat ran into us. I took a dive into the river. I came up far away, but I didn't see Jim. I made a safe landing on shore. Still, I didn't see Jim.  

KO: 흙바닥의 발자국을 따라가니 큰 통나무집에 이르렀다. 갑자기 개들이 몰려 나와 내게 짖어댔다. 나는 꼼짝 않고 서 있었다. 사람들은 날 집으로 맞아들였는데, 참 친절했다. 땅도 넓고 흑인 하인도 100명이 넘었다. 나는 그곳에서 잘 지내며 며칠을 보냈다. 그러다 짐이 나를 찾아냈고, 우리는 다시 길을 떠났다. 둘이 몇 마일쯤 내려가자, 나는 다시 짐과 함께해 행복하다고 느꼈다. 우리는 짐이 진정한 자유를 얻도록 강을 더 따라가기로 결심했다.  
EN: I followed some tracks in the dirt and came to a big old-fashioned log house. Then a lot of dogs jumped out and started to bark at me. I didn't move a step. The people invited me into the house. They were nice. I had never seen such a nice house before. They owned a lot of land and they had over 100 black servants. I enjoyed a good life there for a few days before Jim found me. We set out again together. When we were a couple of miles away, I felt happy to be back with Jim. We decided to move on downstream to get Jim's freedom, since there were still black servants in this place.  



## Scene 9 공작과 왕의 등장  
(Scene 9 – The Duke and the King come aboard)

KO: 이틀, 사흘 밤낮이 지나자 이제는 안락하고 편안해졌다. 강은 너무도 거대했다. 때로는 폭이 1마일 반이나 되었다. 우리는 밤에만 내려갔고 낮에는 뗏목을 숨겼다. 물고기를 잡아올리고 강에서 헤엄치면 몸은 상쾌하고 시원해졌다.  
EN: Two or three days and nights went by. Now I was feeling easy and comfortable. The river was so huge. Sometimes it was a mile and a half wide. We sailed down the river at night. Then we stopped and hid the raft during the day. We put the fish lines out and had a swim in the river. Then we felt fresh and cool.  

KO: 밤이 되면 뗏목을 강으로 밀어내어 강물에 맡겼다. 우리는 파이프를 피우며 다리를 물에 담그고 세상 모든 이야기를 나누었다. 새벽 무렵 민가의 불빛들이 꺼지면 우리는 그것을 시계 삼아 새벽이 오는 걸 알았고, 뗏목을 묶을 은신처를 찾았다.  
EN: At night we pushed the raft out into the river and let the river take her where she wanted to. Then we lit our pipes, hung our legs in the water and talked about everything under the sun. After midnight people on shore went to bed. Then there were no more lights in cabin windows. Points of light were our clock. When we saw the first one before dawn, we knew morning was coming and we hunted for a place to hide and tie up the raft.  

KO: 어느 날 새벽, 나는 카누로 강을 건너 음식을 찾으러 육지 숲 속으로 들어갔다. 두 남자가 강을 향해 달려오고 있었다. 나는 짐을 찾는 사람인지 싶었지만, 그들은 제발 목숨을 구해 달라고 애원했다. 그들을 태우자 곧 뒤에서 사람들과 개들이 쫓아왔지만, 이내 조용해졌다.  
EN: One morning about daybreak I found a canoe. I got in it and went across the river to the main shore. Then upstream in the woods to find something to eat. Two men came running toward the river as fast as they could go. I thought maybe they were looking for Jim, but they begged me to save their lives. They said they were being chased by men and dogs, so I let them jump in the canoe and we moved out into the river. A few minutes later we heard the men and dogs coming, but soon everything was safe and quiet.  

KO: 두 사람 중 하나는 70세쯤 된 대머리에 목덜미에 희끗한 머리가 조금 있었다. 낡은 모자, 더러운 파란 셔츠, 해진 파란 코트에 빛나는 금속 단추가 달려 있었다. 또 다른 이는 30세 쯤 되어 평범한 옷차림이었다.  
EN: One of them was about 70 or older. He was bald with a little gray hair near his neck. He had an old hat on, a dirty blue shirt and a torn old blue coat with shiny metal buttons. Both of them had big traveling bags. The other one was about 30. He was dressed in usual clothes.  

KO: 함께 아침을 먹으며 이야기를 나눴다. 놀랍게도 두 사람은 서로 알지 못했다. 젊은 자는 자기 사정을 이야기했다: 이빨 세정제를 팔다가 곤경에 빠졌고, 다른 이는 금주 집회를 열다가 위스키를 즐긴 것이 들켜 쫓기는 신세가 된 것이다.  
EN: After we had some breakfast together we began to talk. The first thing that came out was that these two didn't know each other. What got you into trouble? One asked the other. Well, I was selling something to clean teeth. It does clean teeth, but it also takes the outside of the teeth off. I stayed in the town one night too long. I was just trying to leave quietly when I ran into you. That's my story. What about yours? Well, I was holding meetings against drinking. I was very popular with the ladies. I got five or six dollars a night because each person paid ten cents. Children and blacks were free. My business was growing all the time, but then they found out that in my free time, I enjoy a glass of whiskey. A black man woke me up this morning and told me that the people were coming after me with horses and dogs. I didn't wait for any breakfast. I wasn't hungry.  

KO: 그러자 젊은 자가 말했다. “우린 좋은 팀이 될 수 있지 않을까?” 그는 자신이 연극배우, 인쇄업자, 약장수까지 뭐든 한다고 했다. 노인도 교회 집회와 점술을 한다고 했다. 대체로 허풍이 가득했다.  
EN: Old man. The young one said. I think we might make a good team. What do you think? I've got nothing against it. What work do you do mainly? I'm a printer. Sell a few medicines. Theater actor. Teach singing and geography for a change. Oh, I do lots of things. Almost anything as long as it isn't real work. How about you? I've done considerable doctoring in my time. I tell people's past and future pretty well, and someone has to find out the facts for me first. Church meetings too. I put them on at different places.  

KO: 그러다 젊은 자는 갑자기 슬픈 얼굴로 말했다. “신사여, 저는 한때 높은 사회적 신분이었으나 추락했습니다. 저는 브리지워터 공작의 후손입니다.” 그는 눈물을 흘리며 자신을 ‘브리지워터 공작’이라 칭했다. 우리는 믿지 않았으나, 짐은 깊이 동정했다.  
EN: The young man suddenly looked very sad. I have to live a life like this after I was so high in society. Gentlemen, I have come down in the world. Down from where? The old man asked. Gentlemen. The young one continued. You would not believe me if I told you the secret of my birth. The secret of your birth? The old man asked. Yes, gentlemen. I will tell you. I am a duke. … My great-grandfather was the oldest son of the Duke of Bridgewater. … I am the rightful Duke of Bridgewater. … And he began to cry. Jim pitied him, and so did I.  

KO: 이에 대머리 노인은 “너만 비밀이 있는 게 아니다. 나는 프랑스의 왕이다!”라며 울기 시작했다. 그는 자신을 루이 17세라고 주장했다. 우리는 충격받았으나, 결국 짐과 나는 그들을 ‘공작’과 ‘왕’이라 불러주기로 했다. 사실 그들이 거짓말쟁이라 생각했지만, 아버지에게 배운 대로 이런 사람은 그냥 자기 방식대로 두는 게 낫다 여겼다.  
EN: But the old man didn't look very comfortable about all this. … Bathwater! … No. You aren't the only person who has had a secret of his birth. … Bathwater! Will you keep my secret if I tell you? Till death. He took the old man by the arm. Bathwater! I am the king of France! … Yes, my friend, it is true. At this moment, your eyes are looking at Louis the 17th. … Jim and I, we just stared this time. … So Jim and I did all these things for him and he seemed to feel better. But I decided that these two men were not kings or dukes at all. I thought they were liars. Still, I didn't say anything. That's the best way. If they wanted us to call them kings and dukes, I didn't mind. That was one thing I learned from my father. With this kind of people, it's best to let them have their own way.  

***

## Scene 10 쫓기는 노예  
(Scene 10 – The Chased Slave)  

KO: 그들은 우리에게 여러 질문을 던졌다. “왜 뗏목을 숨기고 낮에는 움직이지 않나? 짐은 도망한 흑인 노예가 아닌가?” 나는 “만약 도망 노예라면 남쪽으로 내려가겠는가?” 하고 되물었다. 그래도 뭐라 대답해야 했기에, 나는 이야기를 지어냈다.  
EN: They asked us a lot of questions. Why do you cover up the raft? Why do you hide in the daytime? Is Jim a runaway black man? I replied. Would a runaway black run south? But I had to tell them something, so I said.  

KO: “우린 미주리의 파이크 카운티에 살았다. 아버지와 내가 흑인 짐을 데리고 삼촌 벤 줄기러 강을 내려오는데, 증기선이 부딪혀 아버지는 사라졌다. 그 뒤 계속 짐을 빼앗으려는 사람들이 있어 낮에는 숨어 지낸다.”  
EN: Our family lived in Pike County in Missouri. My father and I were coming down river with our black man Jim to live with our uncle Ben. Since we were poor, we decided to come by this raft. One night a steamboat ran into us. We dove deep into the river. I came up and Jim came up, but father never came up again. For the next day or two, we had a lot of trouble. People came and tried to take Jim away from me. They believed he was a runaway black, so we decided not to travel during the daytime. Then they don't bother us.  

KO: 이에 ‘공작’은 계획을 제안했다. “짐을 묶어두고 노예를 잡은 듯이 가장하면 낮에도 다닐 수 있다.” 그는 인쇄소에서 짐의 인상착의와 현상금 $200짜리 광고 전단을 찍어왔다. 우리는 그를 영리하다며 동의했다.  
EN: The Duke said, I will think of a plan. Then we will be able to travel during daylight. … When he came back in the night, he had got a few dollars worth of advertisements put in the newspaper. … Then he showed us another little job he'd printed. It had a picture of a runaway black with a stick over his shoulder. … It said anybody who caught Jim would get two hundred dollars. Now, said the Duke, After tonight, we can sail in the daytime if we want to. We will tie up Jim to show we have caught him. If anybody comes, we will ask them to pay us the two hundred dollars. We all said that the Duke was pretty smart.  

KO: 우리는 그날 밤 10시쯤 뗏목을 내어 강에 나섰다. 새벽 4시쯤 짐이 나를 깨우며 말했다. “헉, 우리 여행 중에 또 다른 왕을 만나게 될까?” 나는 “아니, 더는 없을 거야.” 하고 대답했다. 그러자 짐은 “그래서 다행이야. 난 벌써 이 왕에게 지쳤어. 늘 술에 취해 있고, 공작도 별반 다르지 않으니.”라 했다.  
EN: About ten o'clock, we put the raft out in the river and moved on. About four in the morning, Jim woke me up and asked me, Huck, do you think we're going to run across any more kings on this trip? No, I said. I don't think so. Well, said Jim. That's all right, Ben. I'm tired of this one. He's always drunk, and the Duke isn't much better.  

KO: 내가 들으니 짐은 왕에게 프랑스어를 해보라고 부탁했다. 어떤 소리인지 듣고 싶어서였다. 그러나 왕은 “오래오래 미국에 살다보니 고생 끝에 모국어를 잊어버렸다”고 둘러댔다.  
EN: I heard Jim asking the king to speak French. He said he wanted to hear what it sounded like. But the king said he had been in this country so long, that he had had so much trouble that he had forgotten his mother language.  



## Scene 11 소도시 사람들을 속이다  
(Scene 11 – They fool people of a small town)

EN: We kept moving down the river.  
KO: 우리는 강을 따라 계속 내려갔다.  

EN: Life on the raft was very interesting since the king and the duke performed plays for us.  
KO: 뗏목 위의 생활은 왕과 공작이 연극을 해주었기 때문에 무척 흥미로웠다.  

EN: They practiced Romeo and Juliet and did the sword fight from Richard III.  
KO: 그들은 『로미오와 줄리엣』을 연습했고 『리처드 3세』의 검투 장면도 선보였다.  

EN: One morning, we came inside of another town.  
KO: 어느 아침 우리는 다른 마을 안으로 들어갔다.  

EN: We tied up the raft about one mile from town and went in to look around.  
KO: 우리는 뗏목을 마을에서 약 1마일 떨어진 곳에 묶고 둘러보러 갔다.  

EN: We put up the posters that the duke had made at the printing office.  
KO: 우리는 공작이 인쇄소에서 만든 포스터를 붙였다.  

EN: We wrote the time for a night show.  
KO: 우리는 야간 공연 시간을 기재했다.  

EN: Duke booked the village hall for that.  
KO: 공작은 이를 위해 마을 회관을 예약했다.  

EN: Only twelve people came the first night.  
KO: 첫날 밤에는 단 12명만 왔다.  

EN: Then the duke got some big pieces of paper and black paint and wrote,  
KO: 그러자 공작은 커다란 종이와 검은 물감을 꺼내더니 이렇게 썼다.  

EN: At the village hall, for three nights only, the world famous actors David Garrick and Edmund Keane of the London theatres in their exciting play, The Royal Nonsuch.  
KO: “마을 회관에서 단 3일간, 런던 극장의 세계적 배우 데이비드 개릭과 에드문드 킨 출연! 흥미진진한 연극 『로열 낀사치』.”  

EN: Then at the bottom was the biggest line of all, ladies and children not admitted.  
KO: 맨 아래에는 가장 크게 “여성과 어린이는 입장 불가”라고 적었다.  

EN: There, he said, Now this line will bring them.  
KO: 공작은 “봐라, 이 문구가 사람들을 불러올 거다”라고 말했다.  

EN: Well, all day the king was hard at work, putting up a stage in curtain and a line of candles.  
KO: 온종일 왕은 무대에 커튼을 치고 촛불 줄을 달며 분주히 일했다.  

EN: And that night, the hall was full of men in no time.  
KO: 그날 밤, 회관은 순식간에 남자들로 꽉 찼다.  

EN: When the place couldn't hold any more, the duke stood up before the curtain.  
KO: 더 이상 들어올 수 없게 되자 공작이 커튼 앞에 섰다.  

EN: The duke told them that it was the greatest play that ever was and that Edmund Keane was the most wonderful actor.  
KO: 공작은 이번이 최고의 연극이며, 에드문드 킨은 가장 훌륭한 배우라고 선전했다.  

EN: When they were excited enough, the duke rolled up the curtain.  
KO: 사람들이 흥분하기에 충분해졌을 때, 공작은 커튼을 올렸다.  

EN: The king came running out on his hands and knees with no clothes on at all.  
KO: 왕은 단 하나의 옷도 걸치지 않은 채 손과 무릎으로 기어 나오며 달려왔다.  

EN: And he was painted all over in rings and lines of every color.  
KO: 그의 온몸에는 온갖 색깔의 원과 줄무늬가 칠해져 있었다.  

EN: It was terribly funny and the people almost died laughing.  
KO: 그것은 엄청나게 우스웠고 사람들은 거의 죽도록 웃었다.  

EN: And when the king finished, he danced off the stage and they shouted and banged their feet and laughed hard till he came back again.  
KO: 왕이 끝을 맺으며 춤을 추며 무대를 떠나자, 사람들은 소리치며 발을 구르고 왕이 다시 나올 때까지 웃음을 터뜨렸다.  

EN: They made him come out again and then another time.  
KO: 그들은 그를 다시 불러냈고 또 한 번 더 불러냈다.  

EN: Then the duke let the curtain down and raised his arms.  
KO: 이후 공작이 커튼을 내리고 팔을 들어 올렸다.  

EN: He said, This great play will be given only two more nights. It is on its way to London, where the seats are sold already.  
KO: 그는 말했다. “이 위대한 연극은 앞으로 단 이틀 밤만 공연된다. 곧 런던으로 떠나며, 이미 좌석이 매진됐다.”  

EN: Then he said, I hope you'll mention it to your friends.  
KO: 그리고 “친구들에게 꼭 알리길 바란다”고 말했다.  

EN: About 20 people sang out. What? Is it over? Is that all?  
KO: 대여섯 명이 “뭐라고? 벌써 끝난 거야? 이게 다야?” 하고 외쳤다.  

EN: Then the duke said, Yes.  
KO: 그러자 공작은 “그렇다”고 말했다.  

EN: There was a big roar. Everybody shouted out. It's all lies. We've been tricked.  
KO: 큰 고함소리가 터졌다. 모두가 “거짓말이다. 우린 속았다”고 외쳤다.  

EN: And they started running to the stage in anger.  
KO: 그리고 그들은 화가 나 무대를 향해 달려들기 시작했다.  

EN: Then one fine looking man jumped up on a seat and shouted, Hold on, just a word gentlemen.  
KO: 그때 잘생긴 사내 하나가 의자 위로 뛰어 올라 “멈추시오, 신사분들, 한마디 하겠소”라 말했다.  

EN: Everyone stopped to listen.  
KO: 모두 멈추고 귀 기울였다.  

EN: All right, we've been fooled. But we don't want to be laughed at by this whole town, do we?  
KO: “좋소, 우리 속았소. 그러나 이 마을 전체가 우릴 비웃게 하고 싶지는 않지 않소?”  

EN: No, we want to go out of here quietly and tell people it was a great show. Then we can laugh at the rest of the town. Doesn't that make sense?  
KO: “아니오, 우리는 조용히 나가 훌륭한 공연이었다고 말하겠소. 그러면 다른 사람들이 속는 걸 보며 우리가 웃을 수 있지 않겠소?”  

EN: Everybody shouted out. It sure does. The judge is right.  
KO: 모두가 소리쳤다. “그렇다! 판사님 말씀이 옳다!”  

EN: Then the judge said, All right, then, not a word about any trick. Advise everybody to come and see the tragedy.  
KO: 판사가 말했다. “좋다. 속임수에 대해서는 입도 뻥긋하지 마라. 모든 이에게 이 비극을 보러 오라 하라.”  

EN: The next day we couldn't hear anything around town except what a wonderful show it was.  
KO: 다음날, 마을에서는 공연이 얼마나 훌륭했는지만 떠돌았다.  

EN: The house was jammed again that night.  
KO: 그날 밤 공연장은 다시 꽉 찼다.  

EN: And we used the same trick to fool them again.  
KO: 우리는 같은 수법으로 그들을 또 속였다.  

EN: Before the third night, the king told me to take the raft about two miles below town.  
KO: 셋째 날 밤 공연 전에, 왕은 내게 뗏목을 마을에서 두 마일쯤 아래로 내리라고 말했다.  

EN: The third night it was full again. But there weren't any newcomers this time.  
KO: 셋째 날 밤에도 공연장은 가득 찼다. 그러나 이번에는 새로 온 이는 없었다.  

EN: They were the same people as the other two nights.  
KO: 모두 앞의 이틀에 왔던 그 사람들이었다.  

EN: I stood by the duke at the door.  
KO: 나는 문 옆에서 공작과 함께 서 있었다.  

EN: I saw that every man had full pockets under his coat.  
KO: 나는 모든 남자들의 코트 속 주머니가 가득 차 있는 것을 보았다.  

EN: I smelled bad eggs and old cabbages and such things.  
KO: 나는 썩은 달걀과 묵은 양배추 등의 냄새를 맡았다.  

EN: And if I know the smell of a dead cat, there were about 64 of them, too.  
KO: 그리고 죽은 고양이의 냄새까지 있었다면 대략 열댓 마리는 되는 듯했다.  

EN: Well, when the place was full, the duke gave one man 25 cents and told him to watch the door.  
KO: 공연장이 가득 차자, 공작은 어떤 남자에게 25센트를 주며 문을 지키라 했다.  

EN: Then he went towards the backstage and I went with him.  
KO: 그러고는 그는 무대 뒤로 향했고, 나는 그와 함께 갔다.  

EN: When he reached a dark corner, he said, Walk fast now until we get out of town. Then run for the raft like the devil himself was after you.  
KO: 그는 어두운 구석에 이르러 “지금 빨리 걸어 마을에서 벗어나라. 그리고 마치 악령이 쫓아오는 것처럼 뗏목으로 달리라”고 했다.  

EN: I did it and he did the same.  
KO: 나는 그대로 했고, 그도 똑같이 했다.  

EN: We reached the raft at the same time and edged toward the middle of the river.  
KO: 우리는 동시에 뗏목에 도착해 강 한가운데로 밀어냈다.  

EN: I was pitying the poor king left with the crowd.  
KO: 나는 군중 속에 남겨진 불쌍한 왕을 안쓰럽게 생각했다.  

EN: Then the king came out from under the tent and said, Well, how did the whole thing work out this time, duke?  
KO: 그러나 곧 왕이 천막 밑으로 나와 “자, 이번엔 어떻게 되었나, 공작?” 하고 물었다.  

EN: The duke said, Fools, flatheads, I knew they would be ready for us the third night.  
KO: 공작은 “바보들, 멍청이들, 셋째 날엔 분명 준비해올 줄 알았지”라 말했다.  

EN: They can all have a picnic now if they want to. They brought plenty of supplies.  
KO: “놈들은 원한다면 지금 피크닉이라도 하면 된다. 준비물을 넉넉히 가져왔으니까.”  

EN: They took in $465 during those three nights.  
KO: 우리는 그 셋날 동안 465달러를 긁어모았다.  

EN: I had never seen so much money all in one place before.  
KO: 나는 그렇게 많은 돈을 한 자리에서 본 적이 없었다.  

EN: When they were both asleep, Jim said, Doesn't it surprise you the way these kings behave, Huck?  
KO: 두 사람이 잠들자 짐이 말했다. “헉, 왕들이 이렇게 행동하는 게 놀랍지 않니?”  

EN: No, I said it doesn't.  
KO: 나는 “아니, 놀랍지 않아”라고 대답했다.  

EN: Why doesn't it, Huck?  
KO: 짐은 “왜 그렇지, 헉?” 하고 물었다.  

EN: Well, it doesn't because it's in their blood. I guess they are all alike.  
KO: 나는 “그건 그들의 피에 스며 있기 때문이지. 왕들은 다 똑같아”라고 했다.  

EN: But, Huck, these kings of ours, they're real bad jokes.  
KO: “하지만 헉, 우리가 만난 이 왕들은 진짜 나쁜 웃음거리야.”  

EN: Well, that's what I'm saying. All kings are real bad jokes as far as I can see.  
KO: 나는 “그게 내가 말하는 거야. 모든 왕들은 다 나쁜 농담일 뿐이야”라고 했다.  

EN: We can't help the way a king is. Look at history. Charles II, Louis XV and Henry VIII.  
KO: “왕이란 그런 법이지. 역사를 봐라. 찰스 2세, 루이 15세, 헨리 8세를.”  

EN: He was a real beauty. He called up a wife one night and had her head cut off in the morning.  
KO: “헨리 8세는 진정한 걸작이지. 아내를 한밤에 불러놓고 아침에 목을 잘랐어.”  

EN: It didn't bother him at all. Just like he was calling for eggs.  
KO: “그는 아무렇지 않았지. 계란을 달라고 부르듯 했으니까.”  

EN: No, these guys are just like the other kings as far as I can tell.  
KO: “아니야, 이 사람들도 내가 보기엔 다른 왕들과 똑같아.”  

EN: Well, anyway, I can't stand any more kings.  
KO: “어쨌든 난 더 이상 왕은 못 참겠어.”  

EN: This is all I can take, Huck.  
KO: “이게 내 한계야, 헉.”  

EN: I fell asleep about then.  
KO: 그러곤 나는 잠이 들었다.  



## Scene 12 왕이 하비 윌크스로 가장하다  
(Scene 12 – The King Turns Harvey Wilkes)

EN: The next day, we stopped where there was a village on each side of the river.  
KO: 다음 날, 우리는 강 양쪽에 마을이 있는 곳에 멈췄다.  

EN: The Duke and the King began to think about a plan for working on those two towns.  
KO: 공작과 왕은 그 두 마을에서 어떻게 속임수를 쓸지 생각하기 시작했다.  

EN: They wanted to try the non-such play again because there was so much money in it.  
KO: 그들은 돈이 많이 되니 다시 ‘낀사치 연극’을 해보고 싶어했다.  

EN: But they decided it wouldn't be safe.  
KO: 그러나 안전하지 않을 것이라 판단했다.  

EN: The news might have reached along the river by this time.  
KO: 이쯤 되면 소문이 강을 따라 퍼졌을 수도 있기 때문이다.  

EN: So at last, the Duke said he would think up a plan for his work in the village.  
KO: 그래서 결국 공작은 자기 마을에서 쓸 계획을 세우겠다고 말했다.  

EN: And he took a look at the Arkansas village.  
KO: 그는 아칸소 쪽 마을을 살폈다.  

EN: The King said he would try the other village without any plan, but he would wait for a good idea to come along.  
KO: 왕은 다른 마을은 별다른 계획 없이, 그저 좋은 아이디어가 떠오르기를 기다리겠다고 했다.  

EN: We had all bought new clothes at the last town where we stopped.  
KO: 우리는 지난번 마을에서 모두 새 옷을 샀다.  

EN: The King's clothes were all black, and he looked real smart and straight-backed, a grand and good old man.  
KO: 왕은 검은 옷을 입고 똑바로 서 있어 아주 위엄 있고 근엄한 노인처럼 보였다.  

EN: There was a big steamboat sitting near shore about half a mile above town.  
KO: 마을에서 약 반 마일 위쪽에 큰 증기선이 정박해 있었다.  

EN: The King said, Since I'm dressed so well, maybe I had better arrive on the steamboat, like from St. Louis or Cincinnati or some other big place.  
KO: 왕은 말했다. “내가 이렇게 잘 차려입었으니, 세인트루이스나 신시내티 같은 큰 도시에서 증기선을 타고 오는 척해야겠다.”  

EN: We'll come up into the village on the steamboat.  
KO: “증기선을 타고 마을에 들어가자.”  

EN: Then we saw a simple-looking young countryman sitting by the shore on a dead tree.  
KO: 그러다 우리는 강가 고목에 앉아 있는 순박해 보이는 젊은 시골 청년을 보았다.  

EN: He had a couple of big cloth bags by him, and he was resting in the powerfully warm sunshine.  
KO: 그는 큰 자루 두 개를 곁에 두고 따스한 햇볕을 쬐며 쉬고 있었다.  

EN: Then the canoe in shore, said the King.  
KO: 왕이 말했다. “카누를 육지 쪽으로 대거라.”  

EN: I did, as he said.  
KO: 나는 그의 말대로 했다.  

EN: Where are you on your way to, young man?  
KO: “젊은이, 어디 가는 길인가?”  

EN: The steamboat going to Orleans, he replied.  
KO: 그는 대답했다. “뉴올리언스로 가는 증기선을 기다립니다.”  

EN: Come into the canoe, said the King.  
KO: 왕이 말했다. “이 카누에 타시오.”  

EN: The boy here will help the gentleman. Hadolphus! He called me.  
KO: “이 아이가 신사를 도와줄 거요. 해돌퍼스!” 하고 나를 불렀다.  

EN: I helped the young man into the canoe, and the three of us started out.  
KO: 나는 청년을 카누에 태우고 우리 셋은 출발했다.  

EN: The King said he was on his way to see an old friend on a farm up a few miles.  
KO: 왕은 몇 마일 위쪽 농장의 옛 친구를 만나러 간다고 말했다.  

EN: The young man said, When I first saw you, I said to myself, It's Mr. Harvey Wilkes, sure enough, but he's just a bit too late.  
KO: 청년은 말했다. “처음 뵈었을 때, 스스로 말했습니다. 이분은 하비 윌크스 씨가 틀림없다. 하지만 너무 늦으셨구나.”  

EN: You aren't him, are you?  
KO: “당신은 그가 아니신가요?”  

EN: No, my name's Alexander Blodgett, Reverend Alexander Blodgett, but I'm sorry if Mr. Harvey Wilkes has missed anything.  
KO: 왕은 대답했다. “아니요, 내 이름은 알렉산더 블로젯, 알렉산더 블로젯 목사요. 하비 윌크스 씨가 뭔가를 놓쳤다면 안타깝구려.”  

EN: Well, he won't miss any property, but he missed seeing his brother, Peter, die.  
KO: 청년이 말했다. “재산은 놓치지 않으셨을 테지만, 형제 피터가 죽는 순간은 놓치셨습니다.”  

EN: Peter's always talked about him.  
KO: “피터는 늘 형제 이야기를 했습니다.”  

EN: Peter talked about nothing else these last three weeks.  
KO: “지난 3주 동안 그는 다른 얘기는 하지도 않았습니다.”  

EN: He hasn't seen his brother Harvey since they were boys together, and he never saw his brother William.  
KO: “그는 어린 시절 이후 하비를 보지 못했고, 동생 윌리엄은 아예 본 적도 없습니다.”  

EN: That's the deaf and dumb one.  
KO: “그가 바로 귀먹고 벙어리인 동생입니다.”  

EN: Their other brother George and his wife both died last year.  
KO: “또 다른 형제 조지와 그의 아내는 작년에 모두 세상을 떠났습니다.”  

EN: Did anybody send for Harvey and William?  
KO: “누군가 하비와 윌리엄에게 소식을 보냈습니까?”  

EN: Oh yes, a month or two ago, when Peter was first sick.  
KO: “네, 한두 달 전, 피터가 처음 병들었을 때 보냈습니다.”  

EN: Then he said that he felt he was going to get well.  
KO: “그러나 그는 곧 나을 것 같다고 했습니다.”  

EN: You see, he was pretty old, and his girls were too young, except Mary Jane, the red-headed one.  
KO: “그는 꽤 늙었고, 그의 딸들은 너무 어렸습니다. 빨간 머리 메리 제인을 제외하고는요.”  

EN: So he was kind of lonely, and didn't seem to care much to live.  
KO: “그래서 외롭고, 살 의지도 크게 없어 보였습니다.”  

EN: He most desperately wanted to see Harvey and William.  
KO: “그는 하비와 윌리엄을 가장 애타게 보고 싶어했습니다.”  

EN: He had not made a will yet, but he left a letter behind for Harvey.  
KO: “그는 유언장은 쓰지 않았지만, 하비에게 편지를 남겼습니다.”  

EN: And said he wrote in the letter where all the money was hidden, and how he wanted the rest of the property divided up.  
KO: “그 편지에 돈이 어디 숨겨져 있는지, 그리고 나머지 재산을 어떻게 나누길 원하는지 적었습니다.”  

EN: So that the girls would be alright.  
KO: “그래서 딸들이 무사히 지낼 수 있도록 말이죠.”  

EN: And that letter was all that he wrote about his property.  
KO: “그 편지가 그가 재산에 대해 쓴 전부였습니다.”  

EN: Why do you think that Harvey didn't come? Where does he live?  
KO: “그런데 왜 하비가 오지 않았을까요? 그는 어디 삽니까?”  

EN: Oh, he lives in England, in Sheffield.  
KO: “그는 영국 셰필드에 삽니다.”  

EN: He preaches there.  
KO: “그는 거기서 목회를 하고 있습니다.”  

EN: He hasn't ever been to this country.  
KO: “그는 이 나라에 온 적이 없습니다.”  

EN: Maybe he didn't get the letter at all, you know?  
KO: “어쩌면 그는 편지를 아예 받지 못했을 수도 있습니다.”  

EN: Too bad that he couldn't live to see his brother's poor soul.  
KO: “그가 살아서 형제를 보지 못했다니 안타깝군요.”  

EN: You're going to Orleans, you say?  
KO: “뉴올리언스로 가신다고요?”  

EN: Yes, I'm going in a ship next Wednesday, for Rio de Janeiro, where my uncle lives.  
KO: “네, 다음 주 수요일에 삼촌이 사는 리우데자네이루로 가는 배를 탈 겁니다.”  

EN: That's a pretty long journey, but it'll be lovely. I wish I was going with you.  
KO: “꽤 긴 여정이지만 멋질 겁니다. 나도 함께 간다면 좋겠군요.”  

EN: Is Mary Jane the oldest?  
KO: “메리 제인이 제일 큰 딸인가요?”  

EN: How old are the others?  
KO: “나머지는 몇 살입니까?”  

EN: Mary Jane's nineteen, Susan's fifteen, and Joanna's about fourteen.  
KO: “메리 제인은 열아홉, 수잔은 열다섯, 조애나는 열넷쯤 됩니다.”  

EN: That's the plain one that does all the good works.  
KO: “조애나는 평범하지만 봉사와 선행을 하는 아이죠.”  

EN: Poor thing, left all alone in the cold world.  
KO: “불쌍한 아이, 차가운 세상에 홀로 남게 됐군요.”  

EN: Well, they could be worse. Old Peter had a lot of friends.  
KO: “그래도 나쁘지만은 않습니다. 피터에겐 친구가 많았지요.”  

EN: Hobson and Lot Harvey, and Ben Rucker, and Abner Shackleford, and Levi Bell, the lawyer, and Dr. Robinson and their wives, and the widow Bartley.  
KO: “홉슨과 롯 하비, 벤 러커, 애브너 섀클포드, 변호사 리바이 벨, 로빈슨 박사와 그들의 아내들, 그리고 바틀리 과부도 있습니다.”  

EN: Those are the people he was closest to.  
KO: “그 사람들은 그가 가장 가까이 지낸 이들입니다.”  

EN: I think Harvey should know where to look for Peter's friends, because he must have written about them.  
KO: “하비 씨가 어디서 피터의 친구들을 찾을지 알아야겠지요, 아마 편지에 적혀 있을 겁니다.”  

EN: Well, the old man went on asking questions until there was nothing more to ask the young man.  
KO: 결국 노인은 물을 것이 없을 때까지 청년에게 질문을 쏟아냈다.  

EN: The king asked about everybody and everything in that little town.  
KO: 왕은 그 작은 마을의 모든 사람과 일에 대해 캐물었다.  

EN: Was Peter Wilkes well off?  
KO: “피터 윌크스는 잘 살았나요?”  

EN: Oh yes, pretty well off. He had houses and land, and people think that he left three or four thousand in cash hidden somewhere.  
KO: “네, 꽤 풍족했습니다. 그는 집과 땅을 가졌고, 현금 3~4천 달러를 어딘가 숨겨두었을 거라고들 합니다.”  

EN: When did you say he died?  
KO: “그가 언제 죽었다고 했지요?”  

EN: Didn't say, but it was last night.  
KO: “말하지 않았군요, 어젯밤입니다.”  

EN: Funeral tomorrow, likely?  
KO: “그럼 장례는 내일이겠군요?”  

EN: Yes, about the middle of the day.  
KO: “네, 대낮쯤 될 겁니다.”  

EN: Well, it's all terribly sad, but all of us have to leave one time or another, so we should be prepared.  
KO: “참으로 슬프지만, 우리 모두 언젠가는 떠나야 하니 대비해야지요.”  

EN: Yes, sir.  
KO: “그렇습니다, 선생님.”  

EN: When we reached the steamboat, the young fellow went on board, but the king didn't say anything about going on board.  
KO: 증기선에 도착하자 청년은 승선했지만, 왕은 타겠다는 말은 하지 않았다.  

EN: Instead, he made me move the canoe about a mile upriver.  
KO: 대신 그는 내게 카누를 약 1마일 위쪽으로 움직이라고 했다.  

EN: Then he told me, Now go back right away and bring the duke up here.  
KO: 그리고는 내게 말했다. “지금 바로 돌아가서 공작을 이리 데려오너라.”  

EN: Bring the new carpet bags and tell him to hurry up.  
KO: “새 가방까지 챙기고 서두르라.”  

EN: When I got back to the king with the duke, the king told him every last word that the young fellow said.  
KO: 내가 공작과 함께 돌아왔을 때, 왕은 청년이 했던 말을 빠짐없이 모두 전했다.  

EN: Then the king said, Can you act deaf and dumb, since his younger brother is like that?  
KO: 그다음 왕이 말했다. “그의 동생이 귀먹고 벙어리라던데, 네가 그렇게 연기할 수 있겠는가?”  

EN: The duke replied that he had acted deaf once before.  
KO: 공작은 자신이 전에도 귀머거리 연기를 한 적 있다고 대답했다.  

EN: Then he waited for the steamboat to pass us.  
KO: 그러고는 증기선이 우리를 지나가길 기다렸다.  

EN: At last it came about mid-afternoon.  
KO: 마침내 오후 무렵 그것이 왔다.  

EN: We all got on board.  
KO: 우리는 모두 증기선에 올랐다.  

EN: When we reached the village, we went to shore by small boat.  
KO: 마을에 닿자 우리는 작은 배로 강둑에 갔다.  

EN: About twenty men were waiting for us.  
KO: 그곳에는 스무 명 남짓한 사람들이 우리를 기다리고 있었다.  

EN: The king asked them, Can any of you gentlemen tell me where Mr. Peter Wilkes lives?  
KO: 왕이 물었다. “여러분 중 누가 피터 윌크스 씨의 집이 어디인지 알려주겠습니까?”  

EN: They looked at each other and nodded.  
KO: 그들은 서로를 바라보고 고개를 끄덕였다.  

EN: Then one of them said to the king very gently, I'm sorry sir, but the best we can do is tell you where he lived until yesterday.  
KO: 그러자 한 사람이 왕에게 조심스레 말했다. “유감입니다만 어제로까지 사셨던 집을 알려드릴 수밖에 없습니다.”  

EN: Suddenly like a rainstorm, the king broke down and fell against the man and started crying very hard.  
KO: 그러자 왕은 갑자기 폭우처럼 무너져 그 남자에게 몸을 기댄 채 크게 울기 시작했다.  

EN: Alas, our poor brother, gone and we never got to see him.  
KO: “아! 불쌍한 우리 형제, 떠나버려 우리는 끝내 보지 못했구나!”  

EN: Then he turned around and started making a lot of stupid signs to the duke.  
KO: 그다음 그는 돌아서서 공작에게 어리석은 손짓을 해댔다.  

EN: Then the deaf brother also threw his bags down and started to cry.  
KO: 그러자 청각장애인으로 가장한 공작도 짐을 던지고 울기 시작했다.  

EN: Well, the men gathered around and they pity the brothers and carried their bags up the hill for them and told them all about their brother's last moment.  
KO: 사람들은 그 형제들을 둘러싸며 동정했고, 짐을 들어 언덕 위로 가져다주며 형제의 마지막 순간에 대해 설명해 주었다.  

EN: Well, I felt ashamed to be with them.  
KO: 나는 그들과 함께 있는 것이 부끄러웠다.  

EN: It would make anyone ashamed of the human race.  
KO: 그것은 누구라도 인류에 대해 부끄럽게 만들 일이었다.  



## Scene 13 의사가 의심하다  
(Scene 13 – A Doctor Suspects Them)

EN: The news was all over town in two minutes.  
KO: 그 소식은 단 2분 만에 마을 전체에 퍼졌다.  

EN: You could see the people come running from everywhere.  
KO: 사람들은 사방에서 달려오는 게 보였다.  

EN: Pretty soon we were in the middle of a crowd of people.  
KO: 곧 우리는 인파의 한가운데 있었다.  

EN: The noise was like an army.  
KO: 그 소음은 마치 군대 같았다.  

EN: Windows and doors were all full.  
KO: 창문과 문마다 사람들이 가득했다.  

EN: Every minute someone would ask, is it them?  
KO: 매 순간 누군가는 “그들인가?” 하고 물었다.  

EN: When we got to the house, the street in front of it was full and the three girls were standing in the door.  
KO: 우리가 집에 도착했을 때, 집 앞 거리는 꽉 차 있었고 세 소녀가 문앞에 서 있었다.  

EN: Mary Jane was redheaded, but that was alright.  
KO: 메리 제인은 빨간 머리였지만 괜찮았다.  

EN: She was beautiful.  
KO: 그녀는 아름다웠다.  

EN: Her face was all lit up like glory.  
KO: 그녀의 얼굴은 영광처럼 빛나고 있었다.  

EN: She was so glad that her uncles had come.  
KO: 그녀는 삼촌들이 온 것이 무척 기뻤다.  

EN: The king spread his arms, and Mary Jane jumped into them.  
KO: 왕이 두 팔을 벌리자, 메리 제인이 달려와 안겼다.  

EN: The others jumped for the duke, and there they had it.  
KO: 다른 두 소녀는 공작에게 달려들었고, 그렇게 서로 포옹했다.  

EN: Everyone cried for joy to see them meet at last.  
KO: 마침내 만난 것을 본 모두가 기쁨에 울었다.  

EN: Then the king looked around for the coffin.  
KO: 그 다음 왕은 관을 찾았다.  

EN: He saw it in the corner.  
KO: 그는 구석에서 그것을 보았다.  

EN: Then the duke and the king, with hands around each other's shoulders, walked slowly over to the coffin.  
KO: 그리고 공작과 왕은 서로 어깨동무를 한 채 천천히 관으로 걸어갔다.  

EN: Everybody stepped aside to give them room.  
KO: 모두가 비켜 그들에게 길을 내주었다.  

EN: All the talk stopped.  
KO: 모든 대화가 멈췄다.  

EN: Men took off their hats and dropped their heads.  
KO: 남자들은 모자를 벗고 고개를 숙였다.  

EN: You could have heard a pin drop.  
KO: 핀 떨어지는 소리조차 들릴 만큼 고요했다.  

EN: Then the king and duke looked into the coffin.  
KO: 그때 왕과 공작은 관 속을 들여다보았다.  

EN: When they burst out crying so loudly, you could have heard them in New Orleans.  
KO: 그들이 터뜨린 울음소리는 뉴올리언스까지 들릴 만큼 컸다.  

EN: They put their arms around each other's necks and stood crying like that.  
KO: 그들은 서로의 목을 감싸 안고 울며 서 있었다.  

EN: I never saw men cry before.  
KO: 나는 남자들이 그렇게 우는 것을 전혀 본 적이 없었다.  

EN: Then one got on one side of the coffin, and the other on the other side, and they got on their knees and started to pray quietly.  
KO: 그리고 한 사람은 관의 한쪽, 나머지는 다른 쪽에 무릎을 꿇고 조용히 기도하기 시작했다.  

EN: Then everyone broke down and started to cry, the poor girls too.  
KO: 그러자 모두가 무너져 울기 시작했고, 불쌍한 소녀들도 울었다.  

EN: I never saw such a sad sight.  
KO: 나는 그렇게 슬픈 광경을 본 적이 없었다.  

EN: Well, slowly the king got up.  
KO: 이윽고 왕이 천천히 일어섰다.  

EN: He said he was so sorry he couldn't see his brother while he was still alive, after he came so many thousand miles to see him.  
KO: 그는 수천 마일이나 와놓고 살아생전 형을 보지 못한 것이 너무 안타깝다고 말했다.  

EN: Then he talked about the sweetness of all his brother's friends who were there.  
KO: 이어 그는 그 자리에 있는 형의 친구들이 얼마나 사랑스러운 사람들인지 이야기했다.  

EN: He talked on and on until I felt sick with his lies.  
KO: 그는 거짓말을 늘어놓으며 계속 말했고, 나는 구역질이 날 정도였다.  

EN: When he stopped talking, the crowd began to sing a hymn.  
KO: 그가 말을 멈추자, 군중이 찬송가를 부르기 시작했다.  

EN: Everyone felt good, like church was finished.  
KO: 모두가 마치 예배가 끝난 듯 마음이 좋았다.  

EN: Music is a good thing.  
KO: 음악은 좋은 것이다.  

EN: It sounds so honest.  
KO: 음악은 참으로 진실하게 들린다.  

EN: Then the king asked if a few of the main friends of the family would join them for dinner.  
KO: 그런 후 왕은 가족의 주요 친구 몇 명을 저녁에 함께 해 달라 요청했다.  

EN: He named a few of the people which the young man had told him about, Reverend Hobson, Mr. Rucker, Abner Shackleford, and Widow Bartley.  
KO: 그는 젊은이에게 들은 이름들을 불렀다. 홉슨 목사, 러커 씨, 애브너 섀클포드, 바틀리 과부였다.  

EN: So everyone came and shook hands with the duke and didn't say anything, but just kept smiling.  
KO: 그래서 모두가 와서 공작과 악수했고 아무 말도 하지 않은 채 웃기만 했다.  

EN: The duke made all sorts of signs with his hands and said goo goo.  
KO: 공작은 온갖 손짓을 해대며 “구구” 같은 소리만 냈다.  

EN: The king started to ask about the people in the town.  
KO: 왕은 마을 사람들에 대해 묻기 시작했다.  

EN: Then Mary Jane got the letter which her father had left.  
KO: 그러자 메리 제인이 아버지가 남긴 편지를 가져왔다.  

EN: The king read it out and cried over it.  
KO: 왕은 편지를 읽으며 눈물을 흘렸다.  

EN: The letter said that the father gave the house and $3,000 and gold to the girls.  
KO: 편지에는 아버지가 집과 3,000달러 금화를 딸들에게 남겼다고 적혀 있었다.  

EN: It gave the business, with some other houses and land, worth about $7,000 and $3,000 and gold to Harvey and William, and told where $6,000 cash was hidden in the cellar downstairs.  
KO: 또 상점과 집, 땅, 약 7천 달러, 그리고 금화 3천 달러는 하비와 윌리엄에게 남기며, 지하실에 6천 달러 현금이 숨겨져 있다고 밝혔다.  

EN: So these two frauds said they'd go and get the cash.  
KO: 그래서 두 사기꾼은 돈을 가지러 가겠다고 말했다.  

EN: The king told me to bring a candle.  
KO: 왕은 내게 촛불을 가져오라고 했다.  

EN: We shut the door behind us.  
KO: 우리는 문을 닫았다.  

EN: When they found the bag, they poured the money on the floor.  
KO: 그들이 자루를 발견하자, 돈을 바닥에 쏟았다.  

EN: It was such a lovely sight.  
KO: 그것은 참으로 매혹적인 광경이었다.  

EN: The king's eyes did shine.  
KO: 왕의 눈은 빛났다.  

EN: He hit the duke on the shoulder and said, This is better than non-such, isn't it?  
KO: 그는 공작의 어깨를 치며 말했다. “이건 낀사치 공연보다 훨씬 낫지 않나?”  

EN: The duke replied, Yes, it sure is.  
KO: 공작은 대답했다. “그래, 정말 그렇지.”  

EN: Anyone else would have been happy to see all that money, but these two started to count it.  
KO: 다른 사람 같으면 돈만 보고도 만족했을 테지만, 이 둘은 일일이 세기 시작했다.  

EN: It came out $415 less than $6,000.  
KO: 그것은 6천 달러보다 415달러가 모자랐다.  

EN: So the king said, I wonder what he did with that $415.  
KO: 그래서 왕은 말했다. “그 415달러는 어디에 쓴 걸까?”  

EN: The duke said, Well, he was a sick man, so maybe he made a mistake.  
KO: 공작이 말했다. “글쎄, 그는 병든 사람이었으니 어쩌면 착각했을 거야.”  

EN: I don't care, but we should take this money upstairs and count it in front of everybody.  
KO: “상관없어, 이 돈을 위층으로 가져가 모두 앞에서 세자.”  

EN: Then there's nothing suspicious.  
KO: “그러면 의심할 일이 없어.”  

EN: Wait, let's make it $6,000. The duke said.  
KO: 공작은 말했다. “잠깐, 아예 6천 달러로 맞추자.”  

EN: They started to take money out of their pockets.  
KO: 그들은 주머니에서 돈을 꺼내기 시작했다.  

EN: They had almost nothing left when the pile came to the right amount.  
KO: 돈을 맞출 무렵, 그들에게는 거의 아무것도 남지 않았다.  

EN: Say, said the duke, I've got another idea.  
KO: 공작이 말했다. “이봐, 다른 생각이 떠올랐어.”  

EN: Let's go upstairs, count this money, and then give it to the girls.  
KO: “이 돈을 가지고 올라가서 세고, 소녀들에게 주자.”  

EN: Good land, duke. That is a most wonderful idea.  
KO: 왕이 말했다. “좋구나, 공작. 그건 멋진 생각이다.”  

EN: Then they will not have any suspicions about us.  
KO: “그러면 그들이 우리를 의심하지 않지.”  

EN: When we went back upstairs, everybody gathered around the table.  
KO: 우리가 위층으로 올라가자 모두가 탁자 주위에 모였다.  

EN: The king counted the money and said it on the table.  
KO: 왕은 돈을 세고 탁자 위에 놓았다.  

EN: Then he said, Friends, you were all kind to my poor brother, and he was a good father to these three girls he loved.  
KO: 그는 말했다. “친구들이여, 여러분은 내 불쌍한 형에게 친절했으며, 그는 사랑하는 세 딸의 좋은 아버지였습니다.”  

EN: Now these poor little lambs are left fatherless and motherless.  
KO: “이제 이 불쌍한 작은 양들은 부모 없는 처지가 됐습니다.”  

EN: Do you think we are such uncles that we would rob you at such a time?  
KO: “그런데 우리가 이런 때에 여러분을 속일 삼촌들이라고 생각하십니까?”  

EN: No, I know William would also agree with me.  
KO: “아니오, 윌리엄도 내 말에 동의할 겁니다.”  

EN: Here, Mary Jane, Susan, Joanna, take the money. Take it all.  
KO: “메리 제인, 수잔, 조애나, 이 돈을 가져가거라. 전부 다.”  

EN: It is a gift from him who lies over there.  
KO: “저기 누워 계신 분께서 남기신 선물이다.”  

EN: Then everybody crowded around with tears in their eyes.  
KO: 그러자 모두 눈물을 글썽이며 몰려들었다.  

EN: They all shook the king's hand and the duke's hand.  
KO: 사람들은 왕과 공작의 손을 모두 잡아주었다.  

EN: They called those frauds dear good souls.  
KO: 사람들은 그 사기꾼들을 ‘사랑스러운 선한 영혼들’이라 불렀다.  

EN: The king was trying his best to speak like an Englishman, but he was making lots of mistakes.  
KO: 왕은 영국인처럼 말하려 안간힘을 썼지만 실수투성이였다.  

EN: To cover his mistakes, he made up lots of stories.  
KO: 그는 실수를 감추려 이야기를 지어냈다.  

EN: But then a big iron-faced man came forward and laughed right in the king's face.  
KO: 그러나 무뚝뚝한 얼굴의 사내가 앞으로 나와 왕의 얼굴 앞에서 비웃었다.  

EN: Everybody was shocked.  
KO: 모두가 충격을 받았다.  

EN: Everybody said, Why doctor?  
KO: 모두가 말했다. “왜 그러십니까, 의사 선생?”  

EN: And Abner Shackleford said, Why Robinson, haven't you heard the news? This is Harvey Wilkes.  
KO: 그리고 애브너 섀클포드가 말했다. “왜 그러시오, 로빈슨 의사? 소식 못 들으셨소? 이분이 하비 윌크스요.”  

EN: The king tried to talk to the doctor, but the doctor turned to the king and said, You talk like an Englishman?  
KO: 왕이 의사에게 말하려 했지만, 의사는 그를 향해 말했다. “당신이 영국인처럼 말한다고?”  

EN: You are the worst copy I ever heard.  
KO: “내가 들어본 중 최악의 흉내일 뿐이오.”  

EN: You are not Peter Wilkes's brother.  
KO: “당신은 피터 윌크스의 형제가 아니오.”  

EN: You are a cheat. That's what you are.  
KO: “당신은 사기꾼이오. 그게 당신의 진짜 정체요.”  

EN: Well, everyone crowded around again to try and quiet the doctor down.  
KO: 그러자 다시 모두가 몰려들어 의사를 진정시키려 했다.  

EN: They tried to explain that they were sure the king and the duke were the real brothers.  
KO: 사람들은 왕과 공작이 진짜 형제라 확신한다고 변명했다.  

EN: They were sure of their identity.  
KO: 그들은 두 사람의 신원을 믿고 있었다.  

EN: Mary Jane was standing with the king crying.  
KO: 메리 제인은 왕과 함께 서서 울고 있었다.  

EN: The doctor tried to tell the girls that they should not believe these two strange men.  
KO: 의사는 소녀들에게 이 두 낯선 자를 믿지 말라고 했었다.  

EN: Mary Jane stood straight and replied, This is my answer.  
KO: 그러나 메리 제인은 꼿꼿이 서서 대답했다. “이것이 내 대답입니다.”  

EN: Then, putting the bag of $6,000 in the king's hand, she said, Take this money and invest it for me and my sisters any way you want to.  
KO: 그러고는 6,000달러가 든 가방을 왕의 손에 쥐여주며 말했다. “이 돈을 잡수시고 제 동생들과 저를 위해 원하시는 대로 투자해 주세요.”  

EN: We trust you and we don't need a receipt.  
KO: “우리는 당신을 믿습니다. 영수증도 필요치 않아요.”  

EN: Everybody clapped and made as much noise as a storm.  
KO: 모두가 박수를 치며 폭풍우 같은 함성을 질렀다.  

EN: The king held his head up proudly with a smile.  
KO: 왕은 자랑스럽게 고개를 들고 웃음을 지었다.  

EN: All right, people. The doctor said, But I warn you that the day is coming when you are going to feel sick when you think of this day.  
KO: “좋소, 사람들아. 하지만 나는 경고하리다. 언젠가는 여러분이 오늘을 떠올리며 병이 날 날이 올 거라.” 하고 의사가 말했다.  

EN: And the doctor left.  
KO: 그리고 의사는 떠났다.  



## Scene 14 하비 윌크스로 속임수 이어가기  
(Scene 14 – Continuation)

EN: Well, when they were all gone, the king asked Mary about their rooms.  
KO: 모두가 떠난 뒤, 왕은 메리에게 방들을 어떻게 쓰는지 물었다.  

EN: Mary said that Uncle William could sleep in the only spare room of the house, while she would give her own room to Uncle Harvey, and she would share with her sisters so I could sleep in the small room.  
KO: 메리는 말했다. “윌리엄 삼촌은 집에 있는 유일한 빈방을 쓰고, 하비 삼촌은 제 방을 드리겠어요. 저는 동생들과 함께 자겠으니 작은 방에선 헉이 자면 돼요.”  

EN: That night they had a big supper and many friends came.  
KO: 그날 밤 그들은 큰 저녁을 차렸고 많은 친구들이 찾아왔다.  

EN: When it was time to go to bed, Mary said, I'm going to sleep in the small room.  
KO: 잘 시간이 되자 메리가 말했다. “나는 작은 방에서 잘 거예요.”  

EN: I said, I'm going to sleep in the small room, and she said, I'm going to sleep in the small room.  
KO: 내가 말했다. “제가 작은 방에서 자겠습니다.” 그러자 그녀가 말했다. “제가 작은 방에서 잘 거예요.”  

EN: That night a big supper and many friends came.  
KO: 그날 밤에는 큰 만찬이 있었고 많은 친구들이 왔다.  

EN: When it was done, Joanna and I had supper in the kitchen from all the leftovers.  
KO: 끝나고 나서, 조애나와 나는 부엌에서 남은 음식으로 저녁을 먹었다.  

EN: The others helped the servants clean up.  
KO: 다른 사람들은 하인들을 도와 뒷정리를 했다.  

EN: Joanna started to ask me questions about life in England, and I didn't know how to answer.  
KO: 조애나가 영국 생활에 대해 물어보았고, 나는 어떻게 대답해야 할지 몰랐다.  

EN: Have you ever seen the king?  
KO: “왕을 본 적 있나요?”  

EN: Oh, William the fourth? Well sure I have. He goes to our church.  
KO: “아, 윌리엄 4세 말인가요? 네, 물론 보았습니다. 그는 우리 교회에 옵니다.”  

EN: What? Regularly?  
KO: “뭐라고요? 정기적으로 오나요?”  

EN: Yes, regularly.  
KO: “네, 정기적으로요.”  

EN: I thought he lived in London.  
KO: “난 그가 런던에 사는 줄 알았어요.”  

EN: Well, he does.  
KO: “네, 그렇습니다.”  

EN: But I thought you lived in Sheffield.  
KO: “하지만 당신은 셰필드에 산다고 하지 않았나요?”  

EN: I was in trouble, so I acted as though food was caught in my throat so I could have some time to think about it.  
KO: 나는 곤란해져서, 목에 음식이 걸린 척하며 생각할 시간을 벌었다.  

EN: Then I said, I mean he goes to our church regularly when he's in Sheffield in the summer time, when he comes to take seabaths.  
KO: 그리고는 대답했다. “제 말은 그가 여름에 셰필드에 와서 해수욕을 할 때마다 우리 교회에 정기적으로 온다는 겁니다.”  

EN: Why how you talk? Sheffield is not near the sea.  
KO: “무슨 말을 그렇게 하나요? 셰필드는 바다 근처가 아니잖아요.”  

EN: No, of course it's not. I only said he comes to take seabaths.  
KO: “아니죠, 물론 바다 근처가 아니죠. 다만 그는 해수욕을 하러 온다고만 했습니다.”  

EN: Well, how can he take seabaths if it's not on the sea?  
KO: “하지만 바다가 없다면 어떻게 해수욕을 하죠?”  

EN: Look here, they have special boilers in the palace at Sheffield.  
KO: “저기, 셰필드 궁전에는 특별한 보일러가 있습니다.”  

EN: He likes his water real hot, so they send seawater there, leaders of it.  
KO: “그는 뜨거운 물을 좋아해서, 바닷물을 실어다 그곳으로 보냅니다.”  

EN: Oh, I see now. Joanna said, you should have said that in the first place and save time.  
KO: “아, 이제 알겠네요.” 조애나가 말했다. “처음부터 그렇게 말했다면 시간을 아꼈을 텐데요.”  

EN: She kept asking me questions about England.  
KO: 그녀는 계속해서 영국에 대해 물었다.  

EN: I was about to get caught so many times, but somehow I made a story of it.  
KO: 나는 여러 번 곤경에 빠질 뻔했지만, 어떻게든 이야기를 지어냈다.  

EN: I felt that my stories didn't satisfy her though.  
KO: 하지만 내 이야기들이 그녀에게 충분히 납득되지 않는 듯했다.  

EN: Well, come on now, haven't you been telling a lot of lies?  
KO: “이봐요, 지금까지 수많은 거짓말을 한 건 아니죠?”  

EN: Honest, not a lie in it.  
KO: “정말이에요, 거짓말은 없어요.”  

EN: I replied, she made me promise on the book, so I did.  
KO: 나는 대답했다. 그녀가 성경책 위에서 약속하라고 해서 나는 그렇게 했다.  

EN: Well, now I believe some of what you said, but not all of it.  
KO: “좋아요, 이제 당신 말 중 일부는 믿지만, 전부는 아니에요.”  

EN: What is it you won't believe, Joe?  
KO: “뭘 믿지 못하겠다는 거죠, 조애나?”  

EN: Mary Jane asked, standing behind her, it is not right or kind to talk to the boy like that when he is a stranger and so far from his people.  
KO: 메리 제인이 뒤에서 말하며 물었다. “저 아이가 이방인이고 가족도 먼데, 그렇게 말하는 건 옳지 않아요.”  

EN: I said to myself, this is the girl I am letting that old snake rob of her money.  
KO: 나는 속으로 말했다. “이 소녀가 바로 내가 저 늙은 뱀이 돈을 빼앗도록 놔두고 있는 아이구나.”  

EN: It isn't kind, said Susan.  
KO: 수잔이 말했다. “그건 친절한 행동이 아니야.”  

EN: You ask his pardon and you say you are sorry.  
KO: “그에게 용서를 구하고 사과해.”  

EN: She did just that.  
KO: 조애나는 실제로 그렇게 했다.  

EN: She was so beautiful.  
KO: 그녀는 참으로 아름다웠다.  

EN: I felt sorry and low, and I said to myself, my mind's made up, I'll get their money back.  
KO: 나는 죄책감과 슬픔을 느끼며 속으로 다짐했다. “내가 그들의 돈을 되찾아주겠다.”  

EN: I went to my room to decide on a plan which would not get me in this business.  
KO: 나는 일이 복잡해지지 않게 할 계획을 세우려 방으로 갔다.  

EN: I decided to steal the money back from the king, so I went to the king's room and felt around in the dark.  
KO: 나는 왕에게서 돈을 훔치기로 결심하고 왕의 방으로 가 어둠 속에서 더듬었다.  

EN: But I couldn't find anything in there, so I decided to listen to their talk.  
KO: 그러나 아무것도 찾지 못해 그들의 대화를 엿듣기로 했다.  

EN: After a while I heard their footsteps.  
KO: 잠시 뒤, 나는 그들의 발자국 소리를 들었다.  

EN: I stood behind the curtain and they came in and shut the door.  
KO: 나는 커튼 뒤에 섰고, 그들이 들어와 문을 닫았다.  

EN: The duke said, that doctor is bothering me.  
KO: 공작이 말했다. “그 의사가 신경 쓰여.”  

EN: I think we should leave very soon and go down river.  
KO: “우린 곧 강을 따라 내려가야 해.”  

EN: I felt a little worried, but the king said, what, without the rest of it? The other eight or nine thousand dollars if we sell the house and the land?  
KO: 나는 조금 걱정되었지만 왕이 말했다. “뭐라고, 나머지는 두고 간다고? 집과 토지를 팔면 얻을 8천~9천 달러는?”  

EN: At first the duke didn't agree, but the king made him agree.  
KO: 처음에 공작은 동의하지 않았으나, 결국 왕이 설득했다.  

EN: Then the duke said, well, we should put this money in a safe place.  
KO: 그러자 공작은 말했다. “이 돈을 안전한 곳에 두자.”  

EN: He pushed it under the bed.  
KO: 그는 돈을 침대 밑에 밀어 넣었다.  

EN: It will be safe here.  
KO: “여기 있으면 안전할 거야.”  

EN: But I knew better.  
KO: 그러나 나는 달랐다.  

EN: I had the money before they were down the stairs.  
KO: 그들이 계단을 다 내려가기 전에 나는 돈을 챙겼다.  

EN: I had to hide it before the king found out.  
KO: 왕이 알아차리기 전에 숨겨야만 했다.  

EN: So I went to my room and waited until late at night.  
KO: 그래서 나는 내 방으로 돌아가 밤늦게까지 기다렸다.  

EN: Then I went down the ladder and tiptoed along and got downstairs.  
KO: 그리고 나는 사다리를 내려가 발끝으로 걸어 아래층으로 갔다.  

EN: I looked into the dining room and I saw the coffin and two candles and some people sitting there asleep.  
KO: 식당 안을 들여다보니, 관과 촛불 두 개, 그리고 잠든 사람들이 있었다.  

EN: Then I heard someone coming down the stairs back behind me.  
KO: 그때 내 뒤에서 계단을 내려오는 발자국 소리가 들렸다.  

EN: So I ran into the dining room and looked around.  
KO: 나는 서둘러 식당으로 들어가 주위를 살폈다.  

EN: The only place I could hide the bag was in the coffin.  
KO: 가방을 숨길 유일한 곳은 관 안뿐이었다.  

EN: So I put the money under the dead man's hands.  
KO: 그래서 나는 돈을 죽은 자의 손 아래에 두었다.  

EN: Then I ran back across the room and hid behind the door.  
KO: 그다음 방을 건너가 문 뒤에 숨었다.  

EN: The person coming was Mary Jane.  
KO: 다가오는 사람은 메리 제인이었다.  

EN: She went to the coffin very quietly and kneeled down and started to cry.  
KO: 그녀는 조용히 관 앞에 다가가 무릎을 꿇고 울기 시작했다.  

EN: I saw my chance to get out when her back was toward me.  
KO: 그녀가 등을 돌렸을 때 나는 나갈 기회를 보았다.  

EN: I went straight to my bed.  
KO: 나는 곧장 내 침대로 갔다.  

EN: I said, if the money stays there, it will be all right.  
KO: 나는 말했다. “돈이 거기 머물면 괜찮을 거야.”  

EN: I thought I could write to her after we were gone and she could dig in the grave and get the money.  
KO: 우리는 떠난 뒤 그녀에게 편지를 보내 무덤을 파고 돈을 찾게 할 수 있다고 생각했다.  

EN: When I went downstairs in the morning, the room with the coffin was closed and the family was moving around.  
KO: 아침에 내가 내려가니 관이 있는 방은 닫혀 있었고, 가족들은 분주했다.  

EN: Toward midday, the room was filled with people and the funeral was going on.  
KO: 낮 무렵 그 방은 사람들로 가득했고 장례가 진행되고 있었다.  

EN: Someone had put the top on the coffin.  
KO: 누군가 관의 덮개를 덮어 두었다.  

EN: After the funeral was finished, we all came home.  
KO: 장례가 끝난 뒤, 우리는 모두 집으로 돌아왔다.  

EN: Then the king told all the people that he was going to have to go back to his work in England because people needed him there.  
KO: 그러자 왕은 사람들에게 자신이 일하러 영국으로 돌아가야 한다고 말했다. 그곳 사람들이 자신을 필요로 한다는 이유였다.  

EN: He also said that he would take the girls home with him and everybody was happy.  
KO: 그는 또 소녀들을 데려가겠다고 말했고, 사람들은 모두 기뻐했다.  

EN: Then he set up very quickly to sell the house and land.  
KO: 그러고는 집과 땅을 급히 팔 준비를 했다.  

EN: The next day about noon, two people came and the king sold the black servants to them.  
KO: 다음 날 정오쯤 두 사람이 찾아왔고, 왕은 흑인 하인들을 그들에게 팔았다.  

EN: The two sons went up the river to Memphis and the mother went down river to New Orleans.  
KO: 두 아들은 멤피스로 강을 거슬러 갔고, 어머니는 뉴올리언스로 내려갔다.  

EN: The poor girls and the black servants almost broke their hearts with sadness.  
KO: 불쌍한 소녀들과 흑인 하인들은 슬픔에 거의 가슴이 무너졌다.  

EN: The girls said they never dreamed that the family would be separated.  
KO: 소녀들은 가족이 흩어질 줄은 꿈에도 몰랐다고 했다.  

EN: The next morning, the king and the duke woke me up and I knew that there was trouble.  
KO: 다음 날 아침, 왕과 공작이 나를 깨웠고, 나는 문제가 생겼음을 느꼈다.  

EN: The king said, Were you in my room night before last?  
KO: 왕이 말했다. “그제 밤 내 방에 있었느냐?”  

EN: No, Your Majesty.  
KO: “아닙니다, 폐하.”  

EN: Were you there yesterday or last night?  
KO: “그럼 어제나 어젯밤엔 있었느냐?”  

EN: You're right now. No lies.  
KO: “지금 솔직히 말해라. 거짓말 말고.”  

EN: No lies. I'm telling you the truth.  
KO: “거짓말이 아닙니다. 진실만 말하는 겁니다.”  

EN: The duke said, Have you seen anybody else go in there? Stop and think.  
KO: 공작이 말했다. “다른 누가 들어간 걸 본 적 없느냐? 잘 생각해봐라.”  

EN: Well, only the servants a few times.  
KO: “글쎄요, 하인들이 몇 번 드나들었습니다.”  

EN: Both of them gave a little jump.  
KO: 그러자 두 사람은 움찔했다.  

EN: Is something wrong? I asked.  
KO: 나는 물었다. “뭔가 잘못됐나요?”  

EN: The king turned to me and said, None of your business. You keep your mouth shut.  
KO: 왕이 나를 돌아보며 말했다. “네 일 아니다. 입 다물어라.”  

EN: And the two of them went off.  
KO: 그리고 두 사람은 가버렸다.  

EN: I didn't like to put the blame on the servants, but it didn't hurt them.  
KO: 나는 하인들에게 누명을 씌운 게 마음에 들지 않았지만, 그들에게 해가 되진 않았다.  




## Scene 15 진짜 형제는 누구인가  
(Scene 15 – Who are the real brothers?)

EN: I came downstairs.  
KO: 나는 아래층으로 내려왔다.  

EN: As I was passing the girls room, I saw Mary Jane sitting with her head in her hands, crying.  
KO: 소녀들의 방을 지나는데, 메리 제인이 두 손으로 얼굴을 감싼 채 울고 있는 것을 보았다.  

EN: I felt terrible to see her.  
KO: 그녀를 보니 마음이 무척 아팠다.  

EN: It was the servants, she said.  
KO: 그녀는 말했다. “그건 하인들 때문이에요.”  

EN: Oh dear, dear, they aren't going to see each other anymore.  
KO: “세상에, 이제는 그들이 서로 다시는 볼 수 없을 거예요.”  

EN: She said she couldn't be happy in England.  
KO: 그녀는 영국에 가도 행복할 수 없다고 말했다.  

EN: Suddenly, I let out the secret that the servants would be able to see each other again, and I made up my mind to tell her everything.  
KO: 나는 갑자기 하인들이 다시 만날 수 있음을 폭로했고, 그녀에게 모든 것을 말하기로 결심했다.  

EN: Miss Mary Jane, is there any place out of town where you could stay for a few days?  
KO: “메리 제인 아가씨, 마을 밖에서 며칠 동안 머물 수 있는 곳이 있나요?”  

EN: Yes, Mr. Lothropes, why?  
KO: “네, 로스로프 씨 댁이 있어요. 왜죠?”  

EN: Never mind why yet, I will tell you now.  
KO: “왜인지는 지금 묻지 마세요. 곧 알게 될 겁니다.”  

EN: Those servants will see each other again.  
KO: “그 하인들은 다시 서로를 보게 될 거예요.”  

EN: Within two weeks here in this house, I will prove how I know it.  
KO: “2주 이내에 이 집에서 내가 그걸 어떻게 아는지 증명해 보이죠.”  

EN: Now you just go and stay at Mr. Lothropes for a few days.  
KO: “그러니 당신은 며칠 동안 로스로프 씨 댁에 머무르세요.”  

EN: A few days? She said.  
KO: “며칠 동안이요?” 그녀가 말했다.  

EN: I'll stay there a year.  
KO: “필요하다면 일 년이라도 머무르겠어요.”  

EN: Alright, I said. Now listen to me.  
KO: “좋아요,” 내가 말했다. “이제 내 얘기를 들으세요.”  

EN: Those uncles of yours are not your uncles at all.  
KO: “당신 삼촌들이라고 하는 자들은 사실 삼촌이 아닙니다.”  

EN: They are a couple of frauds.  
KO: “그들은 사기꾼들입니다.”  

EN: There, that's the truth of it.  
KO: “그게 진실이에요.”  

EN: This news shocked her of course, but I reminded her of her promise.  
KO: 물론 이 소식은 그녀를 충격에 빠뜨렸지만, 나는 그녀가 한 약속을 상기시켰다.  

EN: Then she settled down and agreed to do what I told her.  
KO: 그러자 그녀는 마음을 가라앉히고 내가 말한 대로 따르기로 했다.  

EN: Stay at Mr. Lothropes until 9 or 9.30 tonight. Then come back.  
KO: “오늘 밤 9시나 9시 반까지 로스로프 씨 댁에 있다가 돌아오세요.”  

EN: If I'm not here, it means I'm out of the way and safe.  
KO: “내가 없으면, 난 안전하게 빠져나간 겁니다.”  

EN: Then come out and spread the news and get these two men put in prison.  
KO: “그러면 나와서 소식을 퍼뜨리고 이 두 사람을 감옥에 보내도록 하세요.”  

EN: I'll do it. She said.  
KO: “제가 그렇게 하겠어요.” 그녀가 말했다.  

EN: If you want people with proof, well, I'll tell you where to find them.  
KO: “증인이 필요하다면, 어디서 찾을 수 있는지 알려드리죠.”  

EN: Just send to Bricksville and mention the Royal Nonsuch.  
KO: “브릭스빌로 사람을 보내 ‘로열 낀사치’라고 말하세요.”  

EN: The whole town will be here before you can take a breath and they'll be boiling too.  
KO: “숨 돌릴 새도 없이 온 마을 사람들이 달려올 겁니다. 다 분노에 차서요.”  

EN: Then I told her. Don't worry, these two snakes are not your real uncles, so they can't sell your house.  
KO: 나는 이어 말했다. “걱정 마세요. 이 두 뱀 같은 자들은 진짜 삼촌이 아니니 집을 팔 수 없어요.”  

EN: And the servants will have to come back because the king couldn't sell them according to law.  
KO: “그리고 하인들도 돌아올 겁니다. 법적으로 왕은 그들을 팔 수 없었으니까요.”  

EN: Well, alright, but why do you want me to go to Mr. Lothropes? Mary Jane asked me.  
KO: “좋아요, 그런데 왜 제가 로스로프 씨 댁에 가야 하죠?” 메리 제인이 물었다.  

EN: Why? It's because you are not one of those leather-faced people.  
KO: “왜냐고요? 당신은 얼굴에 모든 게 드러나는 사람이니까요.”  

EN: Anybody can read your face like a book.  
KO: “누구든 책처럼 당신의 얼굴을 읽을 수 있습니다.”  

EN: Do you think you can go and face your uncles when they come to kiss you good morning and never say,  
KO: “당신이 아침에 인사를 하러 오는 삼촌들 앞에서 아무 말 않고 태연할 수 있겠어요?”  

EN: Yes, I see. I'll go before breakfast.  
KO: “알겠어요. 아침 먹기 전에 떠나겠습니다.”  

EN: There's just one more thing, that bag of money.  
KO: “한 가지 더 있어요, 바로 그 돈 자루입니다.”  

EN: I told her that I took it back from them and was about to get caught and hid it somewhere.  
KO: 나는 그녀에게 그들에게서 돈을 되찾아, 잡힐 뻔하다가 은닉했다고 말했다.  

EN: I told her that I would write down where it was and she could read it on her way to Mr. Lothropes.  
KO: 그리고 그 위치를 적어 그녀가 로스로프 씨 댁으로 가는 길에 읽을 수 있게 하겠다고 했다.  

EN: I wrote on a piece of paper and put the paper in the coffin.  
KO: 나는 종이에 써서 그것을 관에 넣어두었다.  

EN: Later, everything went alright.  
KO: 이후 모든 건 순조롭게 흘러갔다.  

EN: While they were selling the house and things, later that afternoon, a steamboat landed.  
KO: 그들이 집과 물건을 팔던 그날 오후, 증기선이 도착했다.  

EN: And in two minutes up came a crowd shouting and laughing.  
KO: 그리고 단 2분 만에 군중이 몰려와 소리치며 웃어댔다.  

EN: They were bringing a nice looking older man and a younger one too, whose right arm was broken and wrapped in a white cloth.  
KO: 그들은 한 명의 멀끔한 노인과 오른팔이 부러져 흰 천으로 감싼 젊은 남자를 데리고 왔다.  

EN: The crowd was singing out. Here's another Harvey and William Wilkes.  
KO: 군중이 외쳤다. “이쪽에도 또 다른 하비와 윌리엄 윌크스가 있네!”  

EN: Now we have got two sets of them. You pay your money and take your choice.  
KO: “이제 두 쌍이 있네. 돈을 걸고 원하는 쪽을 선택하라지.”  

EN: I thought that the king and the duke would hide and run away, but they didn't.  
KO: 나는 왕과 공작이 숨거나 달아날 줄 알았지만, 그러지 않았다.  

EN: The duke just went about goo-gooing and the king just looked sorry at the thought of the two other wrongdoers in the world.  
KO: 공작은 그저 ‘구구’거렸고, 왕은 세상에 자신 외에 나쁜 자들이 있다는 것처럼 애처롭게 보였다.  

EN: The old gentleman who had just come started to speak.  
KO: 새로 온 노인이 말하기 시작했다.  

EN: Right away, he spoke like an Englishman, not the king's way.  
KO: 그는 곧바로 왕처럼이 아닌 진짜 영국인처럼 말했다.  

EN: My brother broke his arm.  
KO: “내 형이 팔을 다쳤습니다.”  

EN: He explained.  
KO: 그가 설명했다.  

EN: And we have had great problems.  
KO: “우리는 큰 문제들을 겪었습니다.”  

EN: Our luggage got put off the boat at another town last night by mistake, but here we are at last.  
KO: “어젯밤 수하물이 다른 마을에 내려져 큰 혼란이 있었지만, 마침내 여기에 도착했습니다.”  

EN: The king laughed and said, Broke his arm? I don't believe it.  
KO: 왕은 웃으며 말했다. “팔을 부러뜨렸다니? 믿을 수 없군.”  

EN: That is a useful thing to do.  
KO: “그거 참 쓸모 있는 짓이지.”  

EN: Now we don't know if he can make signs or not to talk to you.  
KO: “그럼 그가 수화를 할 수 있는지 없는지도 모르겠네.”  

EN: And you lost your luggage. Well, well, that is real smart.  
KO: “게다가 짐까지 잃어버렸다니. 훌륭하군.”  

EN: Then the king laughed again and other people did too, except for a few.  
KO: 그러자 왕이 다시 웃었고, 몇 명을 제외한 다른 이들도 웃었다.  

EN: Then a big rough man came up and said to the king, If you are Harvey Wilkes, when did you come to this town?  
KO: 그때 거친 사내 하나가 다가와 왕에게 말했다. “네가 하비 윌크스라면, 언제 이 마을에 왔지?”  

EN: Two evenings ago on the steamboat from Cincinnati.  
KO: 왕은 대답했다. “이틀 전 신시내티에서 온 증기선을 타고 왔지.”  

EN: Well then, why were you up the river that morning in a canoe?  
KO: “그렇다면 그날 아침 왜 강 위에서 카누를 타고 있었지?”  

EN: Not me, my friend.  
KO: “나는 아니네, 친구.”  

EN: It's a lie. I saw you there with Tom Collins and a boy.  
KO: “거짓말이야. 난 톰 콜린스와 한 소년과 함께 있는 네 모습을 봤어.”  

EN: Looking at me, he said, That's the boy.  
KO: 그는 나를 보며 말했다. “저 아이가 그 소년이야.”  

EN: They then took us to a big hotel.  
KO: 그러고는 그들은 우리를 큰 호텔로 데려갔다.  

EN: Then they brought the other two brothers of Mr. Wilkes.  
KO: 그리고 다른 두 명의 윌크스 형제를 불러왔다.  

EN: A sharp looking man came forward. It was Levi Bell, the lawyer.  
KO: 날카로운 인상의 사내가 앞으로 나왔다. 그는 변호사 리바이 벨이었다.  

EN: He asked the king to bring the money to them.  
KO: 그는 왕에게 돈을 가져오라고 했다.  

EN: But the king made a very sad face and told him that the servants had stolen the money and that he didn't know where it was.  
KO: 그러나 왕은 슬픈 얼굴을 지으며 하인들이 돈을 훔쳐 어디 있는지 모른다고 말했다.  

EN: Nobody believed him.  
KO: 아무도 그를 믿지 않았다.  

EN: Then Levi Bell brought out a paper and pen, and the king wrote something.  
KO: 그러자 리바이 벨이 종이와 펜을 가져와 왕에게 뭔가 쓰게 했다.  

EN: Then the Duke wrote something.  
KO: 그 다음 공작도 뭔가를 썼다.  

EN: Then the lawyer pulled a lot of old letters out that were written by the real Harvey Wilkes.  
KO: 변호사는 진짜 하비 윌크스가 쓴 많은 옛 편지를 꺼냈다.  

EN: Here are two kinds of handwriting.  
KO: “여기에 두 가지 글씨체가 있습니다.”  

EN: Anyone can see that you did not write these letters.  
KO: “누구라도 당신들이 이 편지를 쓰지 않았음을 알 수 있습니다.”  

EN: Then he asked the real Harvey Wilkes to write something, and Levi Bell said, Anybody can see that this old gentleman didn't write them either.  
KO: 그러고는 진짜 하비 윌크스에게 쓰라고 하자, 리바이 벨이 말했다. “누구라도 이 노인이 쓴 것이 아님을 알 수 있습니다.”  

EN: But the new gentleman said, Nobody can ever read my writing, so my brother always writes for me.  
KO: 그러나 새로 온 신사가 말했다. “내 글씨는 아무도 읽을 수 없기 때문에, 항상 형이 대신 씁니다.”  

EN: You have to check his writing with the letters.  
KO: “편지와는 형의 글씨를 비교해보아야 합니다.”  

EN: But his arm is broken, so he cannot write now.  
KO: “하지만 그의 팔은 부러져 지금은 쓸 수 없습니다.”  

EN: I have a better idea.  
KO: “더 나은 방법이 있습니다.”  

EN: And he turned to the king.  
KO: 그러면서 그는 왕에게 몸을 돌렸다.  

EN: Perhaps you can tell me where my brother has a tattoo on his body.  
KO: “아마도 내 형의 몸에 있는 문신 위치를 말할 수 있겠지요?”  

EN: The king turned white.  
KO: 왕은 창백해졌다.  

EN: The room was very quiet.  
KO: 방안은 매우 조용해졌다.  

EN: Soon he smiled though.  
KO: 그러나 곧 그가 미소 지었다.  

EN: I can tell you, it is a picture of a small, thin blue arrow.  
KO: “그럼 말하리다. 작은 푸른 화살표입니다.”  

EN: If you don't look close, you can't see it.  
KO: “자세히 보지 않으면 알 수 없지요.”  

EN: The new old gentleman turned towards Ab Turner, who took care of the body before the funeral.  
KO: 새로운 노인은 장례 전 시신을 맡았던 애브 터너를 돌아보았다.  

EN: Did you see such a mark?  
KO: “그런 표시를 보았나요?”  

EN: Ab Turner said, No, I didn't see one.  
KO: 애브 터너는 말했다. “아니오, 본 적 없습니다.”  

EN: Good, said the new old gentleman. But what you did see was the letters P-B-W, didn't you?  
KO: 노인은 말했다. “좋습니다. 하지만 당신은 P-B-W 글씨를 본 건 아니었나요?”  

EN: No, we didn't. We didn't see any marks at all.  
KO: “아니요, 아무 표시도 보지 못했습니다.”  

EN: Now everybody was excited and they started shouting.  
KO: 그러자 모두 흥분해 고함치기 시작했다.  

EN: All of them are trying to fool us.  
KO: “모두가 우릴 속이려 하고 있어!”  

EN: They were getting ready to start hitting the new old gentleman and the king and me.  
KO: 사람들은 새로 온 노인과 왕, 그리고 나를 때리려 했다.  

EN: Then the lawyer jumped on the table.  
KO: 그때 변호사가 탁자 위로 뛰어올랐다.  

EN: Gentlemen. He shouted, Listen to me just for a moment.  
KO: “신사분들!” 그가 외쳤다. “잠시만 제 말에 귀 기울여 주십시오.”  

EN: Let us go to the grave and look at the body.  
KO: “무덤으로 가서 시신을 확인합시다.”  

EN: That's a good idea. They all agreed. Let's go.  
KO: “좋은 생각이오.” 모두 동의했다. “갑시다.”  

EN: So we all went over to the graveyard.  
KO: 그래서 우리 모두 묘지로 갔다.  

EN: The whole town came with us.  
KO: 온 마을이 함께 따라왔다.  

EN: It was getting darker and darker, so they started digging right away.  
KO: 점점 어두워지자, 사람들은 곧바로 파기 시작했다.  

EN: At last, they got the grave open.  
KO: 마침내 무덤이 열렸다.  



## Scene 16 짐이 붙잡히다  
(Scene 16 – Jim is Captured)

EN: We stayed on the river for a few days.  
KO: 우리는 며칠 동안 강 위에 머물렀다.  

EN: We were afraid to stop at any of the towns.  
KO: 우리는 어느 마을에도 머무는 것이 두려웠다.  

EN: The weather was nice and warm now.  
KO: 날씨는 이제 따뜻하고 좋았다.  

EN: We were a long way from home.  
KO: 우리는 집에서 멀리 떨어져 있었다.  

EN: The king and the duke started up their business in the towns again.  
KO: 왕과 공작은 다시 마을에서 사기 행각을 시작했다.  

EN: They gave a talk against drinking, but they didn't get enough money to go and get drunk.  
KO: 그들은 금주 설교를 했지만 술 취할 만큼의 돈도 벌지 못했다.  

EN: They started a dancing school, but the town drove them out of the town.  
KO: 그들은 무용학원을 열었으나 마을 사람들에게 쫓겨났다.  

EN: They tried doctoring and telling the future.  
KO: 그들은 의술과 점도 시도했다.  

EN: Then we just sailed along and they tried to think of some new ideas.  
KO: 그러다 우리는 강을 따라 흘러가며 그들은 새로운 속임수를 궁리했다.  

EN: One morning early, the king went on shore to look at another village.  
KO: 어느 날 아침 일찍, 왕이 다른 마을을 살펴보려고 육지로 갔다.  

EN: He still wasn't back by midday, so the duke and I went looking for him.  
KO: 정오가 되어도 돌아오지 않자, 공작과 내가 그를 찾으러 갔다.  

EN: We found him in the back room of a little bar drunk.  
KO: 우리는 그를 작은 술집 뒷방에서 술 취한 채 발견했다.  

EN: He couldn't walk.  
KO: 그는 걸을 수도 없었다.  

EN: The duke began to shout at him.  
KO: 공작은 그에게 소리치기 시작했다.  

EN: He shouted back.  
KO: 왕도 소리쳐 맞받아쳤다.  

EN: While they were busy, I saw my chance and ran back to the river.  
KO: 그들이 싸우느라 바쁜 사이, 나는 기회를 보고 강으로 달려갔다.  

EN: Said her loose, Jim. I sang out. We are all right now.  
KO: “짐, 밧줄 풀어! 이제 우리는 괜찮아!”하고 내가 소리쳤다.  

EN: But there was no answer.  
KO: 그러나 아무 대답이 없었다.  

EN: No one came out of the tent.  
KO: 천막에서도 아무도 나오지 않았다.  

EN: I looked around, but I couldn't find him.  
KO: 나는 주위를 둘러봤지만, 짐을 찾을 수 없었다.  

EN: Then I started to cry.  
KO: 그러자 나는 울기 시작했다.  

EN: Pretty soon I started walking on the road.  
KO: 곧 나는 길을 걸어가기 시작했다.  

EN: I came across one boy.  
KO: 나는 소년 하나를 만났다.  

EN: I asked him if he had seen a strange black man.  
KO: 나는 그에게 이상한 흑인을 본 적 있는지 물었다.  

EN: Yes.  
KO: “네, 봤어요.”  

EN: Where?  
KO: “어디서요?”  

EN: Down at Silas Phelps's place, about two miles down river.  
KO: “강을 따라 두 마일쯤 내려간 실라스 펠프스 농장에서요.”  

EN: He's a runaway black and they caught him.  
KO: “그는 도망 흑인인데 붙잡혔습니다.”  

EN: The boy told me that one man saw the advertisement for $200, describing old Jim.  
KO: 소년은 내게 어떤 사람이 짐을 묘사한 200달러 현상수배 전단을 보았다고 말했다.  

EN: Then when he saw him on the raft, he decided to get the money.  
KO: 그리고 뗏목 위에서 짐을 보자 돈을 벌기로 결심했다고 했다.  

EN: I went back to the raft.  
KO: 나는 뗏목으로 돌아갔다.  

EN: I was feeling very bad.  
KO: 나는 무척 괴로웠다.  

EN: So I decided to get Jim out of this problem.  
KO: 그래서 짐을 구해내기로 마음먹었다.  

EN: Then I started to think of a plan.  
KO: 그리고 나는 계획을 세우기 시작했다.  

EN: When I got to the Phelps's farm, everything was quiet like on Sunday.  
KO: 내가 펠프스 농장에 이르렀을 때, 모든 것이 마치 일요일처럼 고요했다.  

EN: It was hot and the sun was bright.  
KO: 날씨는 덥고 태양은 밝게 빛나고 있었다.  

EN: Phelps's place was a small cottage on a plantation.  
KO: 펠프스의 농장은 플랜테이션에 있는 작은 오두막이었다.  

EN: There was a big house and then there were three little houses for the black servants.  
KO: 큰 집 한 채와 흑인 하인들을 위한 작은 집 세 채가 있었다.  

EN: Back further there were cotton fields.  
KO: 그 뒤로는 목화밭이 펼쳐져 있었다.  

EN: Behind the fields there were woods.  
KO: 목화밭 뒤에는 숲이 있었다.  

EN: I didn't have any plan.  
KO: 나는 아무 계획도 없었다.  

EN: I just hoped that I could find the right words at the right time.  
KO: 다만 적절한 순간에 적절한 말을 찾기를 바랐다.  

EN: I went to the kitchen at the back, but before I got to the door a lot of dogs came for me.  
KO: 나는 뒷문 쪽 부엌으로 갔지만, 문에 닿기도 전에 수많은 개들이 나를 향해 달려왔다.  

EN: I stopped and kept still.  
KO: 나는 멈춰 서서 가만히 있었다.  

EN: A black servant came running from the house.  
KO: 흑인 하인 한 명이 집에서 달려 나왔다.  

EN: She sent the dogs away.  
KO: 그녀는 개들을 쫓아냈다.  

EN: Then a white woman came running from the house with some little children behind her.  
KO: 그 뒤에 백인 여인과 어린아이 몇이 뒤따라 집에서 나왔다.  

EN: She was smiling all over as she looked at me.  
KO: 그녀는 나를 보며 얼굴 가득 웃음을 지었다.  

EN: Then she said, It's you, isn't it?  
KO: 그녀가 말했다. “당신이구나, 그렇지?”  

EN: I said, Yes ma'am.  
KO: 나는 대답했다. “네, 부인.”  

EN: Before I thought, she held me and hugged me tight in her arms and the tears came in her eyes.  
KO: 내가 생각하기도 전에, 그녀는 나를 끌어안고 눈물을 글썽였다.  

EN: You don't look like your mother as I thought, but I am so glad to see you.  
KO: “내가 생각한 것처럼 네 어머니를 빼닮지는 않았지만, 널 보니 너무 기쁘구나.”  

EN: Children, it's your cousin Tom. Say hello.  
KO: “얘들아, 너희 사촌 톰이다. 인사해라.”  

EN: Then she took me in the house and sat me in a chair.  
KO: 그러고는 그녀는 나를 집 안으로 데리고 들어가 의자에 앉혔다.  

EN: She held both my hands and said, I had so long to see you.  
KO: 그녀는 내 손을 꼭 잡고 말했다. “너를 오랫동안 보고 싶었단다.”  

EN: What kept you so long? A boat problem?  
KO: “왜 이렇게 늦었니? 배에 문제가 있었니?”  

EN: I guess.  
KO: “아마도요.”  

EN: I didn't know what to say, but I said, Yes ma'am.  
KO: 뭐라고 해야 할지 몰라 나는 “네, 부인”이라고 대답했다.  

EN: Don't say ma'am. Call me Aunt Sally.  
KO: “부인이라고 하지 말고, 샐리 아주머니라고 불러라.”  

EN: Well, it was part of the engine in the boat, I think. There was a big bang.  
KO: “글쎄요, 아마도 배 엔진의 일부였던 것 같아요. 큰 폭발이 있었어요.”  

EN: Oh dear. Was anybody hurt?  
KO: “세상에! 다친 사람은 없었니?”  

EN: No, I don't think so.  
KO: “아니요, 그런 것 같진 않아요.”  

EN: That's good. Where's your luggage?  
KO: “잘됐다. 네 짐은 어디 있니?”  

EN: Oh, I forgot it on the boat, Aunt Sally.  
KO: “아, 보트에 두고 왔어요, 샐리 아주머니.”  

EN: I was feeling uncomfortable again.  
KO: 나는 다시 불편해졌다.  

EN: I wanted to go off with one of the children and find out who Tom was.  
KO: 아이들 중 하나와 함께 물러가 ‘톰’이 누구인지 알아보고 싶었다.  

EN: Look, here's your uncle Selis. He's been looking for you. Aunt Sally told me.  
KO: “이봐, 네 셀리스 삼촌이 여기 있구나. 널 찾고 계셨단다.” 샐리 아주머니가 말했다.  

EN: The man came in, looked at me and said, Who's that?  
KO: 남자가 들어와 나를 보며 말했다. “이게 누구지?”  

EN: It's Tom Sawyer. By Jingo, I almost fell through the floor.  
KO: “톰 소여야.” 맙소사, 나는 바닥으로 꺼져버릴 뻔했다.  




## Scene 17 헉과 톰의 약속  
(Scene 17 – Huck and Tom's Agreement)

EN: The man shook my hand.  
KO: 그 남자가 내 손을 흔들었다.  

EN: His wife danced and laughed and cried.  
KO: 그의 아내는 춤추고 웃다가 울었다.  

EN: They both asked me many questions about Tom's family.  
KO: 그들은 모두 나에게 톰의 가족에 대해 많은 질문을 했다.  

EN: But their happiness wasn't anything compared to mine.  
KO: 그러나 그들의 기쁨은 내 기쁨에 비하면 아무것도 아니었다.  

EN: I was so glad to know who I was.  
KO: 나는 내가 누구인지 알게 되어 너무 기뻤다.  

EN: Being Tom Sawyer was easy and comfortable.  
KO: 톰 소여인 척하는 것은 쉽고 편안했다.  

EN: But then I heard a steamboat coming up the river.  
KO: 그러나 그때 나는 강을 따라 올라오는 증기선 소리를 들었다.  

EN: I said to myself, Suppose Tom Sawyer comes in on that boat.  
KO: 나는 속으로 말했다. “만약 톰 소여가 그 배에 타고 있다면?”  

EN: Suppose he steps in here any minute and sings out my name.  
KO: “그가 언제든 이곳에 들어와 내 이름을 부른다면 어떡하지?”  

EN: I must go up the road and meet the boat and stop him.  
KO: “나는 길을 따라 올라가 그 배를 막아야 한다.”  

EN: So I told them that I would go and bring my luggage.  
KO: 그래서 나는 그들에게 짐을 가지러 가겠다고 말했다.  

EN: I took one horse and a wagon.  
KO: 나는 말 한 마리와 마차 하나를 끌었다.  

EN: On the road, I saw another wagon coming.  
KO: 길에서, 또 다른 마차가 오는 것을 보았다.  

EN: After enough, Tom Sawyer was in it.  
KO: 정말로 그 안에는 톰 소여가 타고 있었다.  

EN: So I waited for him.  
KO: 그래서 나는 그를 기다렸다.  

EN: Hold on! I said.  
KO: “잠깐 서라!” 내가 말했다.  

EN: He stopped and his mouth opened and stayed open.  
KO: 그는 멈추었고, 그의 입은 벌어진 채로 멈췄다.  

EN: After a while, he said, You're dead.  
KO: 잠시 후 그가 말했다. “넌 죽었잖아.”  

EN: Now you just go back to the place you came from.  
KO: “이제 다시 네가 온 곳으로 돌아가라.”  

EN: I didn't ever hurt you.  
KO: “나는 너를 해친 적 없어.”  

EN: You know that.  
KO: “넌 그걸 알잖아.”  

EN: Why have you come back to visit?  
KO: “왜 다시 돌아온 거지?”  

EN: I replied. I didn't come back. I never went anywhere.  
KO: 나는 대답했다. “나는 돌아온 게 아니야. 애초에 떠난 적도 없어.”  

EN: Tom Sawyer asked me. What? Didn't you die?  
KO: 톰 소여가 물었다. “뭐라고? 넌 죽은 게 아니었어?”  

EN: No, I didn't die.  
KO: “아니, 나는 죽지 않았어.”  

EN: Come and feel me if you don't believe me.  
KO: “믿지 못하겠으면 와서 만져봐.”  

EN: So he came over and he decided I was all right.  
KO: 그래서 그는 다가와 내가 멀쩡하다는 것을 확인했다.  

EN: I told him about the whole adventure.  
KO: 나는 그에게 이번 모험에 대해 모두 이야기했다.  

EN: Then I told him. I'm trying to steal Jim back. Miss Watson's Jim.  
KO: 그러고는 말했다. “나는 짐을 되찾으려 해. 미스 왓슨의 짐 말이야.”  

EN: His eyes lit up and he said, I'll help you.  
KO: 그의 두 눈이 반짝이며 말했다. “내가 도와줄게.”  

EN: Then he thought for a while and he said, All right.  
KO: 그러더니 잠시 생각하다가 그가 말했다. “좋아.”  

EN: Now take my luggage and say that it is yours.  
KO: “이제 내 짐을 네 것이라고 해라.”  

EN: You go back and I will follow about half an hour later.  
KO: “너는 먼저 돌아가고, 나는 30분쯤 있다가 따라가겠다.”  

EN: So I drove back and in about half an hour, Tom's wagon came to the house.  
KO: 그래서 나는 돌아갔고, 약 30분 뒤 톰의 마차가 집에 도착했다.  

EN: Aunt Sally said, I wonder who that is. I do believe it's a stranger.  
KO: 샐리 아주머니가 말했다. “저 사람이 누굴까? 낯선 이 같구나.”  

EN: My name's Sid Sawyer. Tom said.  
KO: 톰이 말했다. “제 이름은 시드 소여입니다.”  

EN: Hello Aunt Sally.  
KO: “안녕하세요, 샐리 아주머니.”  

EN: Well, she jumped up and ran to him and kissed him half to death.  
KO: 그러자 그녀는 벌떡 일어나 그에게 달려가 죽도록 키스했다.  

EN: Well, I've never had such a surprise.  
KO: 정말 그렇게 놀란 적은 없었다.  

EN: We knew Tom was coming, but my sister didn't write to tell me that Tom's brother Sid was coming too.  
KO: 우리는 톰이 올 줄 알았지만, 내 동생이 톰의 형제 시드도 온다고는 편지에 쓰지 않았다.  

EN: I just begged and begged. And at the last minute, she let me come too. Tom said.  
KO: “계속 졸라댔더니 마지막 순간에야 그녀가 나도 가라고 허락했어요.” 톰이 말했다.  

EN: We all had dinner.  
KO: 우리는 모두 저녁을 함께 먹었다.  

EN: There was enough food on the table for seven families.  
KO: 테이블 위에는 일곱 가족이 먹을 수 있을 만큼 음식이 많았다.  

EN: There was a considerable amount of talk all afternoon.  
KO: 오후 내내 많은 대화가 오갔다.  

EN: Tom and I listened carefully.  
KO: 톰과 나는 주의 깊게 들었다.  

EN: After dinner, I told Tom Sawyer all about the King and the Duke.  
KO: 저녁 후 나는 왕과 공작에 대한 모든 이야기를 톰에게 말했다.  

EN: So we wanted to go and see the show.  
KO: 그래서 우리는 공연을 보러 가고 싶었다.  

EN: But Uncle Silas told us that the whole town knew about the stupid show and there would not be one now.  
KO: 하지만 실라스 삼촌은 온 마을이 그 바보 같은 공연에 대해 다 알아버려 이제는 없을 거라 말했다.  

EN: I felt sorry for the Duke and the King.  
KO: 나는 공작과 왕이 딱하게 느껴졌다.  



## Scene 18 그들이 짐을 격려하다  
(Scene 18 – They cheer Jim up)

EN: Tom and I had to sleep in the same bed.  
KO: 톰과 나는 같은 침대에서 자야 했다.  

EN: Being tired, we said good night and went to bed right after dinner.  
KO: 피곤했기에 우리는 저녁 식사 후 바로 굿나잇을 하고 잠자리에 들었다.  

EN: After a while, Tom said to me, Look here, Huck. How stupid we are not to have thought of it before.  
KO: 잠시 후 톰이 내게 말했다. “이봐, 헉. 우리가 왜 전에 이걸 생각 못했을까?”  

EN: I know where Jim is.  
KO: “나는 짐이 어디 있는지 알아.”  

EN: Where?  
KO: “어디?”  

EN: In that little cabin out in back.  
KO: “뒤쪽에 있는 작은 오두막 안에.”  

EN: When we were at dinner, didn't you see a black man go in there with some food?  
KO: “우리가 저녁 먹을 때, 흑인 한 명이 그곳에 음식을 들고 들어가는 걸 보지 못했어?”  

EN: Yes, but I thought he was taking it for a dog.  
KO: “응, 하지만 난 그가 개에게 먹이는 건 줄 알았어.”  

EN: I did too, but it wasn't for a dog.  
KO: “나도 그렇게 생각했지만, 개를 위한 건 아니었어.”  

EN: How do you know?  
KO: “어떻게 알아?”  

EN: Because part of it was a watermelon.  
KO: “음식 중 일부가 수박이었거든.”  

EN: You're right. I said to Tom.  
KO: “맞아.” 내가 톰에게 말했다.  

EN: And the black man unlocked the cabin door when he went in and he locked it when he came out.  
KO: “그리고 그 흑인은 안으로 들어갈 때 문을 열쇠로 열고, 나올 때 다시 잠갔어.”  

EN: He got the key from Uncle.  
KO: “그는 삼촌에게서 열쇠를 받은 거야.”  

EN: Watermelon means there is a man in there. A lock means a prisoner.  
KO: “수박은 안에 사람이 있다는 뜻이고, 자물쇠는 죄수가 있다는 증거지.”  

EN: That prisoner is our old Jim.  
KO: “그 죄수는 바로 우리 짐이야.”  

EN: We have found him.  
KO: “우리가 그를 찾아낸 거야.”  

EN: What a good head you have.  
KO: “네 머리가 정말 잘 돌아가는구나.”  

EN: I told him.  
KO: 나는 그에게 그렇게 말했다.  

EN: We both made a plan.  
KO: 우리 둘은 계획을 세웠다.  

EN: So tomorrow night I will get my canoe and bring the raft from the island.  
KO: “그래서 내일 밤 나는 카누를 가져와 섬에서 뗏목을 끌고 오겠다.”  

EN: Then we will steal the key from the old man's trousers after he goes to bed.  
KO: “그후 삼촌이 잠들면 그의 바지에서 열쇠를 훔치자.”  

EN: Then we will all push off down river.  
KO: “그다음 우리는 뗏목을 밀고 강을 따라 내려가자.”  

EN: Do you think that plan will work?  
KO: “그 계획이 통할 거라 생각하니?”  

EN: Of course it will work, but it's too simple.  
KO: “물론 통할 거야, 하지만 너무 단순해.”  

EN: It isn't exciting. It isn't an adventure.  
KO: “이건 흥미롭지도 않고 모험 같지도 않아.”  

EN: It wouldn't be any more of a story than stealing a bar of soap.  
KO: “비누 한 개 훔치는 것과 다를 게 없는 이야기야.”  

EN: I didn't say anything because I knew very well that whenever he got his plan ready, I would like it.  
KO: 나는 아무 말도 하지 않았다. 왜냐하면 그가 계획을 세우면 결국 내가 따라야 한다는 걸 알았기 때문이다.  

EN: But I will just tell you what happened.  
KO: 하지만 지금 나는 그냥 무슨 일이 있었는지 얘기할 뿐이다.  

EN: One thing was sure. Tom Sawyer was going to help me steal Jim back.  
KO: 확실한 한 가지는 톰 소여가 나를 도와 짐을 되찾아올 거란 사실이었다.  

EN: We both got out of bed and started looking for things to help Jim escape.  
KO: 우리 둘은 침대에서 나와 짐을 도망치게 도울 물건들을 찾기 시작했다.  

EN: Tom got an idea.  
KO: 톰이 아이디어를 냈다.  

EN: We'll dig him out.  
KO: “우리가 땅굴을 파서 그를 꺼내자.”  

EN: That will take about a week and it will be something we can be proud of.  
KO: “그건 일주일쯤 걸릴 거지만, 자랑스러운 일이 될 거야.”  

EN: In the morning we were up at daybreak.  
KO: 아침에 우리는 새벽에 일어났다.  

EN: We went out to make friends with the black man who fed Jim.  
KO: 우리는 짐에게 음식을 주는 흑인과 친해지려고 밖으로 나갔다.  

EN: If it was Jim who was in that little house and back, he let us go along with him and look at the prisoner.  
KO: 만약 그 작은 집에 있는 죄수가 짐이라면, 그는 우리를 데려가 죄수를 보여주었다.  

EN: Inside the cabin we could hardly see anything.  
KO: 오두막 안은 너무 어두워 아무것도 잘 보이지 않았다.  

EN: It was so dark, but we could see that it was Jim.  
KO: 매우 어두웠지만, 그가 짐이라는 것만은 알아볼 수 있었다.  

EN: Tom gave a dime to the black man who let us in and whispered to Jim.  
KO: 톰은 우리를 안으로 들여보낸 흑인에게 다임 한 닢을 주고, 짐에게 속삭였다.  

EN: You don't know us, Jim. Just remember that you don't know us.  
KO: “짐, 우릴 모르는 척해. 넌 우릴 모른다고만 기억해.”  

EN: And if you hear digging outside at night, don't worry.  
KO: “그리고 밤에 밖에서 파내는 소리가 들려도 걱정하지 마.”  

EN: We are going to get you free.  
KO: “우리가 널 자유롭게 해줄 거야.”  

EN: Jim didn't say anything, but he looked happy.  
KO: 짐은 아무 말도 하지 않았지만 행복해 보였다.  

EN: He just had time to take my hand in his before we left.  
KO: 우리가 떠나기 전 잠시 내 손을 잡는 것이 그가 할 수 있는 전부였다.  



## Scene 19 톰의 복잡한 계획  
(Scene 19 – Huck and Tom plan Jim’s escape)

EN: Before breakfast the next morning, we went into the woods to make some plans.  
KO: 다음 날 아침 식사 전, 우리는 숲으로 들어가 계획을 세우려 했다.  

EN: Tom said, Huck, it is too easy. We have to make Jim's escape more difficult.  
KO: 톰이 말했다. “헉, 이건 너무 쉬워. 우리는 짐의 탈출을 더 어렵게 만들어야 해.”  

EN: Well first, I said, there is a chain around Jim's leg which makes him stay near the bed because it's tied to it.  
KO: 내가 말했다. “우선, 짐은 발에 쇠사슬이 묶여 침대와 연결된 채 머물러야 해.”  

EN: I know, we have to find something to make a saw. Tom said.  
KO: 톰이 말했다. “알지, 그래서 우리는 톱을 만들어야 해.”  

EN: Why do we need a saw?  
KO: “왜 톱이 필요하지?”  

EN: To saw the leg off the bed.  
KO: “침대 다리를 잘라내려고.”  

EN: But if we just lift the bed up, the chain will fall off.  
KO: “하지만 침대를 들어 올리면 사슬은 그냥 빠져.”  

EN: We don't need to saw it.  
KO: “굳이 톱질할 필요 없어.”  

EN: That is too easy, Huck. Tom said.  
KO: 톰이 말했다. “그건 너무 쉬워, 헉.”  

EN: Haven't you ever read any books?  
KO: “너 책 안 읽어봤니?”  

EN: They always saw the leg of the bed in two.  
KO: “거긴 늘 침대 다리를 톱으로 반 갈라.”  

EN: Then they tie a rope onto the castle wall.  
KO: “그다음 성벽에 밧줄을 매지.”  

EN: Then the prisoner climbs down the wall and breaks his leg because the rope is always too short.  
KO: “그러고는 죄수가 밧줄로 내려가다 줄이 짧아져서 다리를 부러뜨리지.”  

EN: Then your friends come and throw you across a horse and you ride away to your country.  
KO: “그다음 친구들이 와서 널 말 위에 던지고 고향으로 데려가.”  

EN: Don't you know those stories?  
KO: “그런 이야기 몰라?”  

EN: But there's no water for Jim to fall into outside the cabin. I said.  
KO: 내가 말했다. “하지만 짐이 오두막 밖으로 떨어질 물은 없잖아.”  

EN: But old Tom didn't hear me. He was thinking again.  
KO: 그러나 톰은 내 말을 듣지 않고 다시 궁리하고 있었다.  

EN: Soon he replied, No, we don't need to saw off Jim's leg.  
KO: 곧 그가 대답했다. “아니, 짐의 다리를 자를 필요는 없어.”  

EN: Saw off Jim's leg? Why would you do that?  
KO: “짐의 다리를 자른다고? 왜 그런 짓을 해?”  

EN: Well, sometimes it happens. When they can't get a chain off, they sometimes cut off a hand in the books.  
KO: “글쎄, 가끔 그런 일이 있거든. 책에서는 쇠사슬이 안 풀리면 손을 잘라내기도 해.”  

EN: A leg would be even better.  
KO: “다리를 자르면 더 좋지.”  

EN: But then Jim is black. He probably wouldn't appreciate the European custom.  
KO: “하지만 짐은 흑인이니까 유럽식 관습을 좋아하지는 않을 거야.”  

EN: But we can still send him a rope.  
KO: “하지만 여전히 밧줄은 줄 수 있어.”  

EN: We can put it inside a pie.  
KO: “그걸 파이 속에 넣는 거야.”  

EN: Tom Sawyer, how you talk? I said.  
KO: 내가 말했다. “톰 소여, 넌 말도 안 되는 소리를 하는구나.”  

EN: Jim doesn't need a rope.  
KO: “짐은 밧줄이 필요 없어.”  

EN: His cabin is on the ground and he is going to crawl out with us, isn't he?  
KO: “그의 오두막은 땅 위에 있으니 그냥 함께 기어 나오면 되잖아?”  

EN: He must have a rope.  
KO: “아니, 그는 반드시 밧줄을 가져야 해.”  

EN: What's he going to do with a rope?  
KO: “그가 밧줄로 뭘 한다는 거지?”  

EN: He can hide it under his bed.  
KO: “그는 그것을 침대 밑에 숨길 수 있어.”  

EN: And it will be a good clue when he is gone.  
KO: “그리고 그가 탈출했을 때 좋은 단서가 되지.”  

EN: We have to leave some clues.  
KO: “우리는 반드시 단서를 남겨야만 해.”  

EN: I've never heard of not leaving some clues.  
KO: “단서를 남기지 않는 건 들어본 적도 없어.”  

EN: Well, if it's in the rules and we have to do it all right, let him have it. I said.  
KO: 내가 말했다. “좋아, 만약 그게 규칙이라면 그에게 주자.”  

EN: Then Tom got another idea.  
KO: 그러자 톰이 또 새로운 생각을 냈다.  

EN: We've got to borrow a shirt, too.  
KO: “우리는 셔츠도 빌려야 해.”  

EN: Why do we need a shirt, Tom?  
KO: “톰, 왜 셔츠가 필요하지?”  

EN: For Jim to write his thoughts on.  
KO: “짐이 자신의 생각을 적도록 하기 위해서야.”  

EN: But Jim doesn't know how to write, Tom.  
KO: “하지만 짐은 글을 모른다고, 톰.”  

EN: Oh well, he can make marks on the shirt.  
KO: “괜찮아, 그냥 표시를 남기면 되지.”  

EN: We'll make a pen for him out of an old spoon.  
KO: “우리가 오래된 숟가락으로 펜을 만들어주자.”  

EN: What are we going to use for ink?  
KO: “하지만 잉크는 뭘 써?”  

EN: All the best prisoners use their own blood.  
KO: “뛰어난 죄수들은 모두 자기 피를 쓰지.”  

EN: Jim can do that, too.  
KO: “짐도 그렇게 할 수 있어.”  

EN: If he wants to write us a message, he can put it on the bottom of a tin plate and throw it out the window.  
KO: “그리고 우리에게 메시지를 남기고 싶다면 그것을 양철 접시 바닥에 써서 창밖으로 던지면 돼.”  

EN: But Jim doesn't have any tin plates.  
KO: “하지만 짐에겐 양철 접시가 없잖아.”  

EN: Well, we can get him some.  
KO: “우리가 가져다주면 돼.”  

EN: But we won't be able to read his messages.  
KO: “하지만 우리가 그의 메시지를 읽을 수 없지.”  

EN: That's all right. Half the time, people can't read what other people write anyway.  
KO: “괜찮아. 어차피 절반은 다른 사람이 쓴 걸 못 읽거든.”  

EN: After breakfast, the servants put the washing outside on the line.  
KO: 아침 식사 후, 하인들은 빨래를 밖 줄에 걸었다.  

EN: I went and borrowed a white sheet and a white shirt.  
KO: 나는 흰 시트 한 장과 흰 셔츠 하나를 빌렸다.  

EN: Now all we need is tools, Tom said.  
KO: 톰이 말했다. “이제 필요한 건 도구야.”  

EN: What for? I asked.  
KO: 내가 물었다. “무슨 도구?”  

EN: To dig him out.  
KO: “그를 땅굴로 꺼내야 하니까.”  

EN: We can't use our teeth, can we?  
KO: “이빨을 쓸 순 없잖아?”  

EN: We need knives.  
KO: “칼이 필요해.”  

EN: All the prisoners in the books dig with knives.  
KO: “책 속의 죄수들은 모두 칼로 판다.”  

EN: One man in France dug for 37 years and he came out in China.  
KO: “어떤 프랑스인은 37년을 파내려가 중국에 도달했지.”  

EN: But Jim doesn't know anybody in China. I said.  
KO: 내가 말했다. “하지만 짐은 중국에 아는 사람도 없어.”  

EN: That doesn't matter. Tom said.  
KO: 톰이 말했다. “그건 상관없어.”  

EN: Tom, there's an old shovel in the back of the house. Why don't we use that? It would be much easier.  
KO: “톰, 집 뒤에 낡은 삽이 있어. 그걸 쓰면 훨씬 쉽겠지.”  

EN: Oh, Huck, you never learn.  
KO: “아, 헉. 넌 정말 배우질 않는구나.”  

EN: Tom said, looking disappointed.  
KO: 톰은 실망한 표정으로 그렇게 말했다.  

EN: You just go and get three knives now, okay?  
KO: “지금 당장 칼 세 자루만 가져와, 알았지?”  




## Scene 20 톰과 헉, 땅굴을 파다  
(Scene 20 – Digging Jim Out)

EN: As soon as we thought everybody was asleep that night, we climbed out of our room.  
KO: 그날 밤, 모두가 잠들었다고 생각되자 우리는 방에서 몰래 빠져나왔다.  

EN: We went to the cabin and dug for a long time with our knives.  
KO: 우리는 오두막으로 가서 칼로 오랫동안 땅을 팠다.  

EN: Our hands hurt so much, but there was only a little hole in the ground at midnight.  
KO: 손은 너무 아팠지만, 자정이 되어도 땅에 난 구멍은 겨우 작게 뚫렸을 뿐이었다.  

EN: At last, I said. This isn't a 37-year job, Tom.  
KO: 마침내 내가 말했다. “이건 37년 걸릴 일이 아니야, 톰.”  

EN: This here is a 38-year job.  
KO: “이건 38년은 걸릴 거야.”  

EN: Tom thought for a bit and finally said, This is no use.  
KO: 톰은 잠시 고민하다 마침내 말했다. “이건 소용없어.”  

EN: We will have to use a shovel, but we must think that it is a knife.  
KO: “우리는 삽을 써야겠지만, 그것을 칼이라고 생각해야 해.”  

EN: So we got some old shovels and began digging again.  
KO: 그래서 우리는 낡은 삽을 가져와 다시 파기 시작했다.  

EN: In about three hours, the job was done.  
KO: 약 세 시간이 지나자 일이 끝났다.  

EN: We climbed into the hole and came up on the cabin floor next to Jim's bed.  
KO: 우리는 구멍 안으로 들어가 짐의 침대 옆 오두막 바닥에 올라왔다.  

EN: Jim was asleep and we had to wake him up.  
KO: 짐은 자고 있었고, 우리는 그를 깨워야 했다.  

EN: He almost cried for happiness.  
KO: 그는 거의 기쁨의 눈물을 흘릴 뻔했다.  

EN: He said we could break the chain and get out of there right away.  
KO: 그는 사슬을 끊고 당장 나갈 수 있다고 말했다.  

EN: But Tom said that would break all the rules for escape.  
KO: 그러나 톰은 그것이 탈출의 모든 규칙을 어기는 것이라고 말했다.  

EN: Tom told Jim about our plans.  
KO: 톰은 짐에게 우리의 계획을 이야기했다.  

EN: Jim said that Aunt Sally and Uncle Celis came every day or two to visit him.  
KO: 짐은 샐리 아주머니와 실라스 아저씨가 하루나 이틀마다 자신을 보러 온다고 말했다.  

EN: So Tom said to Jim, We'll put small things in your food for you to use.  
KO: 그러자 톰은 짐에게 말했다. “우리가 음식을 통해 사용할 물건들을 넣어줄게.”  

EN: The next day, Tom got a spoon for Jim to use as a pan.  
KO: 다음 날, 톰은 짐이 펜으로 쓸 수 있도록 숟가락 하나를 가져왔다.  

EN: I got three plates from the servant's kitchen.  
KO: 나는 하인들의 부엌에서 접시 세 개를 가져왔다.  

EN: I talked to the black cook and at the same time, Tom put the spoon under a piece of bread that was going to Jim's room.  
KO: 나는 흑인 요리사와 얘기하는 척하고, 동시에 톰은 짐의 방으로 가는 빵 조각 밑에 숟가락을 숨겼다.  

EN: We followed him to see how our plan worked.  
KO: 우리는 계획이 어떻게 진행되는지 보기 위해 그를 따라갔다.  

EN: It went just fine. Jim got everything all right.  
KO: 모든 게 잘 되었다. 짐은 모든 것을 제대로 받았다.  

EN: He broke into the pie we sent and hid the rope under the bed just like we told him.  
KO: 그는 우리가 보낸 파이를 열어 안의 밧줄을 꺼내더니, 우리가 말해준 대로 침대 밑에 숨겼다.  

EN: He made some marks on a tin plate and threw it out the window.  
KO: 그는 양철 접시 위에 표시를 하고 창밖으로 던졌다.  



## Scene 21 톰의 어리석은 구출  
(Scene 21 – Tom's Foolish Rescue)

EN: Just before midnight, Tom and I were talking.  
KO: 자정이 되기 직전, 톰과 나는 이야기를 하고 있었다.  

EN: He said, The walls in that cabin are not right.  
KO: 그가 말했다. “저 오두막의 벽이 문제야.”  

EN: Why not?  
KO: “왜?”  

EN: Well, in the real prisons, the walls are made of rock.  
KO: “진짜 감옥에서는 벽이 돌로 되어 있어.”  

EN: We will have to get a rock.  
KO: “우리는 돌을 가져와야 해.”  

EN: So we hunted for a rock.  
KO: 그래서 우리는 돌을 찾아다녔다.  

EN: We found a great big one and we rolled it halfway to the cabin.  
KO: 우리는 큰 돌 하나를 발견해 오두막까지 반쯤 굴렸다.  

EN: But we got so tired, it was no use.  
KO: 그러나 우리는 너무 지쳐서 도저히 할 수가 없었다.  

EN: So we went to get Jim.  
KO: 그래서 우리는 짐을 데리러 갔다.  

EN: He picked his bed up and took the chain off the bed leg.  
KO: 그는 침대를 들어 올려 침대 다리에 묶인 사슬을 풀었다.  

EN: He hung the chain around his neck and we all went out through the hole we had dug.  
KO: 그는 그 사슬을 목에 걸고 우리는 모두 파놓은 구멍을 통해 나갔다.  

EN: Jim and I moved the stone along while Tom was in charge.  
KO: 짐과 내가 돌을 옮길 동안 톰이 지휘를 맡았다.  

EN: He knew everything about being in charge.  
KO: 그는 지도하는 법을 다 안다고 생각했다.  

EN: The stone was too big to go in the hole, so we made the hole bigger.  
KO: 돌이 구멍에 들어가지 않아 우리는 구멍을 더 크게 만들었다.  

EN: We put the stone under Jim's bed.  
KO: 우리는 돌을 짐의 침대 밑에 두었다.  

EN: We helped him put his chain back on the bed leg and then we went up to our bedroom.  
KO: 우리는 그가 다시 침대 다리에 사슬을 채우도록 도운 뒤, 자기 방으로 올라갔다.  

EN: In three weeks, we were ready for our final plan.  
KO: 삼 주 후 우리는 최종 계획을 실행할 준비가 됐다.  

EN: We sawed the bed leg in two and we ate all the dust.  
KO: 우리는 침대 다리를 반으로 잘라내고, 톱밥을 모두 먹어 치웠다.  

EN: It gave us a powerful stomach ache.  
KO: 그것은 우리에게 큰 복통을 주었다.  

EN: It was the worst wood dust I ever tasted.  
KO: 내가 먹어 본 가장 끔찍한 톱밥이었다.  

EN: Tom said, Now it's time for the mysterious message.  
KO: 톰이 말했다. “이제 미스터리한 편지를 쓸 시간이야.”  

EN: What message? I asked.  
KO: 내가 물었다. “무슨 편지?”  

EN: We have to warn the people that something is going to happen.  
KO: “사람들에게 무슨 일이 일어날 거라 경고해야 해.”  

EN: But look here. Why do we want to warn them? Let them find out.  
KO: “하지만 왜 우리가 경고를 해줘야 해? 그냥 알아서 겪게 두자.”  

EN: But they might not notice that Jim is leaving.  
KO: “하지만 그들은 짐이 도망치는 걸 모를 수도 있어.”  

EN: We don't want to have an easy escape.  
KO: “우리는 쉬운 탈출을 원치 않아.”  

EN: That is not exciting.  
KO: “그건 흥미롭지 않지.”  

EN: So Tom wrote a letter and I pushed it under the front door.  
KO: 그래서 톰은 편지를 쓰고 나는 그것을 현관 밑으로 밀어넣었다.  

EN: Please help me. I want to be your friend.  
KO: “부디 도와주세요. 저는 당신의 친구가 되고 싶습니다.”  

EN: There are a lot of criminals in Indian country.  
KO: “인디언 지역에는 범죄자가 많습니다.”  

EN: They are planning to steal your one-way slave tonight.  
KO: “그들이 오늘 밤 당신의 노예를 훔치려 합니다.”  

EN: I am one of them.  
KO: “저는 그들 중 한 명입니다.”  

EN: But I wish to leave them and lead an honest life.  
KO: “그러나 저는 그들을 떠나 정직한 삶을 살고 싶습니다.”  

EN: So I am telling you their plan.  
KO: “그래서 그들의 계획을 가르쳐 드리는 겁니다.”  

EN: They will come at midnight from the north with a false key.  
KO: “그들은 자정에 북쪽에서 가짜 열쇠를 가지고 올 것입니다.”  

EN: You can lock them in the cabin while they are cutting the slaves' chains.  
KO: “그들이 노예의 쇠사슬을 자르는 동안 당신은 그들을 오두막 안에 가둘 수 있습니다.”  

EN: You can kill them any way you like.  
KO: “그리고 원하는 방식으로 그들을 죽이실 수 있습니다.”  

EN: I want no payment, but I know I have done the right thing. Your unknown friend.  
KO: “보수는 원치 않지만, 옳은 일을 했다는 걸 압니다. 당신의 익명의 친구.”  

EN: I never saw such a frightened family.  
KO: 나는 그렇게 겁에 질린 가족은 본 적이 없었다.  

EN: After supper, I walked into the sitting room.  
KO: 저녁 식사 후 나는 거실로 들어갔다.  

EN: What a crowd. 15 farmers and every one of them had a gun.  
KO: 인산인해였다. 15명의 농부가 있었고 모두 총을 들고 있었다.  

EN: Aunt Sally sent me straight up to bed.  
KO: 샐리 아주머니는 나를 곧장 침대로 올려보냈다.  

EN: As soon as I was upstairs, I was out the window in a second.  
KO: 위층에 올라가자마자 나는 창문으로 빠져나왔다.  

EN: I ran straight to Jim's cabin. Tom was waiting there.  
KO: 나는 곧장 짐의 오두막으로 달려갔고, 톰이 거기서 기다리고 있었다.  

EN: I told him. We'd better be quick. The house is full of men with guns.  
KO: 나는 말했다. “빨리하자. 집 안은 총 든 사람들로 가득해.”  

EN: Where is Jim?  
KO: “짐은 어디 있지?”  

EN: Right at your arm. You can touch him.  
KO: “바로 네 옆에 있어. 네가 만질 수 있어.”  

EN: Then we heard footsteps of men coming to the cabin.  
KO: 그때 우리는 오두막으로 다가오는 발소리를 들었다.  

EN: We heard them unlocking the door.  
KO: 그들이 문을 여는 소리를 들었다.  

EN: One of them said. I told you we are too soon. They haven't come yet. This door is still locked.  
KO: 한 사람이 말했다. “봐라, 우리가 너무 일찍 온 거야. 그들은 아직 오지 않았어. 문이 여전히 잠겨 있군.”  

EN: Some of you go in the cabin and wait for them.  
KO: “너희 중 일부는 오두막 안에 숨어 기다려라.”  

EN: When they come, you kill them.  
KO: “그들이 오면 죽여버려라.”  

EN: The rest of you look around here.  
KO: “나머지는 여기 주변을 살펴라.”  

EN: So they came in, but they couldn't see us in the dark.  
KO: 그래서 그들이 들어왔지만, 어두워 우리는 보이지 않았다.  

EN: They almost stepped on us while we were getting under the bed.  
KO: 우리가 침대 밑으로 숨을 때 그들이 거의 우리를 밟을 뻔했다.  

EN: We went out through the hole, quietly, but very fast.  
KO: 우리는 구멍을 통해 조용하지만 재빨리 나갔다.  

EN: Tom's trouser leg got caught and it tore.  
KO: 톰의 바지가 걸려 찢어졌다.  

EN: They heard us.  
KO: 그들이 우리 소리를 들었다.  

EN: Someone called out. Who's that? Answer or I'll shoot?  
KO: 누군가 외쳤다. “거기 누구야? 대답 안 하면 쏜다!”  

EN: But we didn't answer. We just ran our feet off.  
KO: 그러나 우리는 대답하지 않고 있는 힘껏 달렸다.  

EN: Then there were bullets flying past our heads.  
KO: 그러자 총알이 머리 위로 날아다녔다.  

EN: We heard them call out. There they are. Turn the dogs loose. They're going for the river.  
KO: 우리는 그들의 외침을 들었다. “저기 있다! 개들을 풀어라. 놈들이 강으로 간다!”  

EN: The dogs came racing and made enough noise for a million.  
KO: 개들이 미친 듯 달려왔고 엄청난 소음을 냈다.  

EN: But they were our dogs, so when they caught up with us, they just jumped in a friendly way and ran past us.  
KO: 하지만 그 개들은 우리 개들이어서, 우리를 따라잡자 그저 반갑게 뛰어오르며 지나쳤다.  

EN: We jumped into my canoe and went out to the middle of the river.  
KO: 우리는 카누에 뛰어올라 강 한가운데로 나갔다.  

EN: Soon we reached the raft on the island.  
KO: 곧 우리는 섬에 있던 뗏목에 도착했다.  

EN: We were all as glad as could be.  
KO: 우리는 모두 이보다 더 기쁠 수 없었다.  

EN: But Tom was the gladdest because he had a bullet in his leg.  
KO: 그러나 톰이 가장 기뻐했다. 그는 다리에 총알을 맞았기 때문이다.  




## Scene 22 짐, 톰 옆을 지키다  
(Scene 22 – Jim stood by Tom)

EN: Tom told us to leave him and to go on, but Jim and I decided to get the doctor.  
KO: 톰은 우리에게 자신을 두고 가라고 했지만, 짐과 나는 의사를 데려오기로 했다.  

EN: Jim stayed to look after Tom and I went for the doctor.  
KO: 짐은 톰을 돌보기 위해 남았고, 나는 의사를 데리러 갔다.  

EN: I was going to bring him back by canoe.  
KO: 나는 의사를 카누에 태워 데려올 생각이었다.  

EN: But the doctor didn't think that the canoe could hold two people.  
KO: 그러나 의사는 카누에 두 사람이 타기는 위험하다고 생각했다.  

EN: So I told him to come by raft.  
KO: 그래서 나는 그에게 뗏목으로 오라고 말했다.  

EN: I stayed there and slept.  
KO: 나는 그곳에 머물러 잠들었다.  

EN: The next morning, I went to the doctor's home, but they said he wasn't back yet.  
KO: 다음 날 아침, 나는 의사의 집에 갔지만 그가 아직 돌아오지 않았다고 했다.  

EN: As I was walking on the road, I met Uncle Silas and he took me home.  
KO: 내가 길을 걷고 있을 때, 실라스 삼촌을 만나 그가 나를 집으로 데려갔다.  

EN: On the second morning, the doctor came with Tom on a mattress, and Jim was there too with his hands tied behind his back.  
KO: 이튿날 아침, 의사는 매트리스 위에 톰을 실어 왔고, 짐 또한 손이 뒤로 묶인 채 있었다.  

EN: Aunt Sally threw herself at Tom crying.  
KO: 샐리 아주머니는 톰에게 달려들며 울었다.  

EN: Oh, he's dead. I know he's dead.  
KO: “아, 그는 죽었어. 틀림없이 죽었어.”  

EN: Some of the men wanted to kill Jim, but the others said, Don't do that.  
KO: 몇몇은 짐을 죽이려 했으나, 다른 이들은 말렸다. “그러지 마라.”  

EN: He isn't ours. His owner will come and make us pay for him.  
KO: “그는 우리의 노예가 아니야. 그의 주인이 와서 값을 물게 할 거다.”  

EN: So they took Jim back to the same cabin and chained him again, but this time with both hands and both feet to a big piece of wood.  
KO: 그래서 그들은 짐을 같은 오두막으로 데려가 이번에는 양손과 양발을 큰 나무에 묶었다.  

EN: When Aunt Sally told Tom about it, Tom sat up in bed and shouted, They haven't got any right to shut him up like that.  
KO: 샐리 아주머니가 톰에게 그것을 말하자, 톰은 침대에 벌떡 일어나 외쳤다. “그들이 짐을 저렇게 가두어둘 권리는 없어.”  

EN: Let him go free.  
KO: “그를 자유롭게 하라.”  

EN: He doesn't belong to anybody.  
KO: “그는 누구의 소유물도 아니야.”  

EN: He is as free as anybody on this earth.  
KO: “그는 이 세상 누구와도 똑같이 자유로워.”  

EN: Then why did you want to set him free if he was free already?  
KO: “그러면 이미 자유인인데 왜 네가 그를 풀어주려고 했느냐?”  

EN: For the adventure, Aunt Polly.  
KO: “그건 모험을 위해서였어요, 폴리 아주머니.”  

EN: Sure enough, Tom's Aunt Polly was right there.  
KO: 과연, 톰의 폴리 아주머니가 거기 와 계셨다.  

EN: Aunt Sally jumped and almost kissed her head off.  
KO: 샐리 아주머니는 깜짝 놀라 거의 그녀의 머리를 빠짐없이 키스할 정도였다.  

EN: I found a good safe place under Tom's bed.  
KO: 나는 톰의 침대 밑에서 안전한 숨을 곳을 찾았다.  

EN: Polly said, Tom, you should be ashamed.  
KO: 폴리 아주머니가 말했다. “톰, 네가 부끄러운 줄 알아라.”  

EN: But that isn't Tom. That's Sid.  
KO: “하지만 저 아이는 톰이 아니라 시드야.”  

EN: Sid and Sally. Where's Tom?  
KO: “시드라니, 샐리야. 그럼 톰은 어디 있느냐?”  

EN: You mean, where's Huck Finn? That's what you mean.  
KO: “당신이 말한 건 톰이 아니라 헉 핀이지. 그렇잖아?”  

EN: Don't worry. I know these two when I see them.  
KO: “걱정 마세요. 이 둘은 내가 보면 알아요.”  

EN: Come out from under that bed, Huck Finn.  
KO: “침대 밑에서 나오너라, 헉 핀.”  

EN: So I did.  
KO: 그래서 나는 나왔다.  

EN: Aunt Sally didn't know up from down.  
KO: 샐리 아주머니는 혼란스러워 어찌할 바를 몰랐다.  

EN: So Tom's Aunt Polly told Aunt Sally who I was and then I had to explain my part of it.  
KO: 그래서 톰의 폴리 아주머니가 샐리 아주머니에게 내가 누구인지 알려주었고, 나는 내가 한 일을 설명해야 했다.  

EN: Aunt Polly said, Well now, Sally, you wrote to me and said Tom and Sid had come all right.  
KO: 폴리 아주머니가 말했다. “샐리, 네가 내게 편지에 톰과 시드가 잘 도착했다고 썼지 않니?”  

EN: So I said to myself, Well now, I am just going to sail down 1100 miles of river and find out what is going on this time.  
KO: “그래서 나는 스스로 말했지. 이번에는 강을 1100마일이나 따라 내려가 무슨 일이 일어나는지 직접 보러 가야겠다.”  



## Scene 23 결말  
(Scene 23 – The Ending)

EN: We had Jim out of the chains in no time, and Aunt Sally gave him a good time and all he wanted to eat.  
KO: 우리는 곧 짐을 쇠사슬에서 풀어주었고, 샐리 아주머니는 그에게 즐거운 시간을 주며 원하는 음식을 마음껏 먹게 했다.  

EN: Jim and I went up to visit Tom in his room.  
KO: 짐과 나는 톰의 방으로 올라가 그를 보러 갔다.  

EN: Tom said, Let's all three of us go out and have some adventure with the Indians for a couple of weeks when I get better.  
KO: 톰이 말했다. “내가 나으면 우리 셋이 인디언들과 함께 몇 주간 모험을 떠나자.”  

EN: I said, Well, I don't have any money for that kind of journey, and I won't get any from home.  
KO: 내가 말했다. “하지만 난 그런 여행을 할 돈이 없어. 집에서도 받을 수 없을 거야.”  

EN: My pop must have gotten it all from Judge Thatcher and drunk it all up by now.  
KO: “내 아버지가 대처 판사에게서 돈을 다 받아 마셔버렸을 거야.”  

EN: No, he hasn't, Tom said. It's all still there, six thousand dollars and more, and your pop never came back.  
KO: “아니야, 그렇지 않아.” 톰이 말했다. “그 돈은 여전히 그대로 있어, 6천 달러 이상이나. 네 아버지는 돌아오지 않았어.”  

EN: Jim looked serious, and he said, He's not coming back anymore, Huck.  
KO: 짐이 진지하게 말했다. “그는 다시 돌아오지 않아, 헉.”  

EN: Why not? I asked him.  
KO: “왜?” 내가 물었다.  

EN: Never mind why, Huck, but he's not coming back anymore.  
KO: “그 이유는 묻지 마, 헉. 하지만 그는 돌아오지 않아.”  

EN: I kept asking him, so at last he told me.  
KO: 내가 계속 캐묻자, 마침내 그가 말했다.  

EN: Remember that house floating down the river with a dead man on the floor all covered up?  
KO: “강을 따라 떠내려오던 집 기억나? 바닥에 시신이 덮여 있던 집 말이야.”  

EN: I wouldn't let you come in and look.  
KO: “내가 너를 들어오게 하지 않고 보지 못하게 했지.”  

EN: Well, I went in and uncovered him.  
KO: “사실은 내가 들어가서 덮개를 벗겼어.”  

EN: So you can get your money whenever you want it, because that was your pop.  
KO: “그러니 네가 원할 때면 언제든 돈을 찾을 수 있어. 그건 네 아버지였으니까.”  

EN: Tom is real well known now, he put his bullet around his neck with a watch.  
KO: 톰은 이제 꽤 유명해졌다. 그는 탄환을 시계와 함께 목에 걸었다.  

EN: He is always looking to see what time it is.  
KO: 그는 늘 지금 몇 시인지 확인하려고 본다.  

EN: So there's nothing more to write about.  
KO: 이제 더 쓸 이야기는 없다.  

EN: If I had known all the trouble with writing a book, I wouldn't have started this one.  
KO: 만약 책을 쓰는 게 이렇게 힘든 줄 알았다면, 나는 이걸 시작하지 않았을 것이다.  

EN: But I am thinking of setting out on another trip, because Aunt Sally says she is going to adopt me and civilize me.  
KO: 그러나 나는 또 다른 여행을 떠날까 생각한다. 왜냐하면 샐리 아주머니가 나를 입양해 문명인으로 만들겠다고 하기 때문이다.  

EN: I can't stand it.  
KO: 나는 그건 견딜 수 없다.  

EN: I've been there before.  
KO: 나는 이미 한번 겪어봤으니까.  





