


“The Cat and the Mouse” | Fairy Tales and Other Traditional Stories | Joseph Jacobs | Lit2Go ETC










 

Lit2Go







Authors
Books
Genres
Collections
Readability







Fairy Tales and Other Traditional Stories


      by FCIT



    “The Cat and the Mouse”  

    by Joseph Jacobs




        Additional Information
      



Year Published:
            1923          

Language:
            English          

Country of Origin:
            England          

Source:
            Henry Altemus, ed., The History of Tom Thumb (Henry Altemus Co., 1923)          





Readability:


                Flesch–Kincaid Level:
                2.3




Word Count:
            457          





Genre:
Fairy Tale/Folk Tale


Keywords:
            animals, chain story, fairy tales, repetition, timeline          

✎ Cite This




Share
|











Downloads


Audio


Passage PDF

Student Activity








APA


MLA


Chicago






            Jacobs, J. (1923). “The Cat and the Mouse”. Fairy Tales and Other Traditional Stories (Lit2Go Edition). Retrieved October 02, 2025, from https://etc.usf.edu/lit2go/68/fairy-tales-and-other-traditional-stories/4864/the-cat-and-the-mouse/




            Jacobs, Joseph. "“The Cat and the Mouse”." Fairy Tales and Other Traditional Stories. Lit2Go Edition. 1923. Web. <https://etc.usf.edu/lit2go/68/fairy-tales-and-other-traditional-stories/4864/the-cat-and-the-mouse/>. October 02, 2025.
          



            Joseph Jacobs, "“The Cat and the Mouse”," Fairy Tales and Other Traditional Stories, Lit2Go Edition, (1923), accessed October 02, 2025, https://etc.usf.edu/lit2go/68/fairy-tales-and-other-traditional-stories/4864/the-cat-and-the-mouse/.
          



 

Back
Next








                        The embedded audio player requires a modern internet browser. You should visit Browse Happy and update your internet browser today!
          

	The cat and the mouse
	  Played in the malt-house:
	  The cat bit the mouse’s tail off.  “Pray, puss, give me my tail.”
	  “No,” says the cat, “I’ll not give you your tail,
	till you go to the cow and fetch me some milk.”
	  First she leapt, and then she ran,
	  Till she came to the cow, and thus began—
	  “Pray, cow, give me milk, that I may give cat milk,
	that cat may give me my own tail again.”
	  “No,” said the cow, “I will give you no milk,
	till you go to the farmer and get me some hay.”
	  First she leapt, and then she ran,
	  Till she came to the farmer, and thus began—
	  “Pray, farmer, give me hay that I may give cow hay,
	that cow may give me milk,
	that I may give cat milk, that cat may give me my own tail again.”
	  “No,” says the farmer, “I’ll give you no hay,
	till you go to the butcher and fetch me some meat.”
	  First she leapt, and then she ran,
	  Till she came to the butcher, and thus began—
	  “Pray, butcher, give me meat, that I may give farmer meat,
	that farmer may give me hay,
	that I may give cow hay,
	that cow may give me milk,
	that I may give cat milk,
	that cat may give me my own tail again.”
	  “No,” says the butcher, “I’ll give you no meat
	till you go to the baker and fetch me some bread.”
	  First she leapt, and then she ran,
	  Till she came to the baker, and thus began,—
	  “Pray, baker, give me bread, that I may give butcher bread,
	that butcher may give me meat,
	that I may give farmer meat,
	that farmer may give me hay,
	that I may give cow hay,
	that cow may give me milk,
	that I may give cat milk,
	that cat may give me my own tail again.”
	  “Yes,” says the baker, “I’ll give you some bread,
	  But if you eat my meal, I’ll cut off your head.”
	  Then the baker gave mouse bread,
	and mouse gave butcher bread,
	and butcher gave mouse meat,
	and mouse gave farmer meat,
	and farmer gave mouse hay,
	and mouse gave cow hay,
	and cow gave mouse milk,
	and mouse gave cat milk,
	and cat gave mouse her own tail again!


 

Back
Next









            This collection of children's literature is a part of the Educational Technology Clearinghouse and is funded by various grants.
          

            Copyright © 2006—2025 by the Florida Center for Instructional Technology, College of Education, University of South Florida.
          


License
Credits
FAQ
Giving




This document was downloaded from Lit2Go, a free online collection of stories and poems in Mp3 (audiobook) format published by the Florida Center for Instructional Technology. For more information, including classroom activities, readability data, and original sources, please visit https://etc.usf.edu/lit2go/68/fairy-tales-and-other-traditional-stories/4864/the-cat-and-the-mouse/.


Lit2Go: Fairy Tales and Other Traditional Stories
“The Cat and the Mouse”






