


“The Story of Little Tavwots” | Fairy Tales and Other Traditional Stories | Mary Hunter Austin | Lit2Go ETC










 

Lit2Go







Authors
Books
Genres
Collections
Readability







Fairy Tales and Other Traditional Stories


      by FCIT



    “The Story of Little Tavwots”  

    by Mary Hunter Austin




        Additional Information
      



Year Published:
            1904          

Language:
            English          

Country of Origin:
            India          

Source:
            Austin, M. (1904),  How to Tell Stories to Children, and Some Stories to Tell.  New York: Houghton Mifflin.          





Readability:


                Flesch–Kincaid Level:
                3.8




Word Count:
            501          





Genre:
Fairy Tale/Folk Tale


Keywords:
            nature          

✎ Cite This




Share
|











Downloads


Audio


Passage PDF

Student Activity








APA


MLA


Chicago






            Austin, M. (1904). “The Story of Little Tavwots”. Fairy Tales and Other Traditional Stories (Lit2Go Edition). Retrieved October 02, 2025, from https://etc.usf.edu/lit2go/68/fairy-tales-and-other-traditional-stories/5103/the-story-of-little-tavwots/




            Austin, Mary Hunter. "“The Story of Little Tavwots”." Fairy Tales and Other Traditional Stories. Lit2Go Edition. 1904. Web. <https://etc.usf.edu/lit2go/68/fairy-tales-and-other-traditional-stories/5103/the-story-of-little-tavwots/>. October 02, 2025.
          



            Mary Hunter Austin, "“The Story of Little Tavwots”," Fairy Tales and Other Traditional Stories, Lit2Go Edition, (1904), accessed October 02, 2025, https://etc.usf.edu/lit2go/68/fairy-tales-and-other-traditional-stories/5103/the-story-of-little-tavwots/.
          



 

Back
Next








                        The embedded audio player requires a modern internet browser. You should visit Browse Happy and update your internet browser today!
          

	This is the story an Indian woman told a little white boy who lived with his father and mother near the Indians’ country; and Tavwots is the name of the little rabbit.

	But once, long ago, Tavwots was not little,—he was the largest of all four-footed things, and a mighty hunter. He used to hunt every day; as soon as it was day, and light enough to see, he used to get up, and go to his hunting. But every day he saw the track of a great foot on the trail, before him. This troubled him, for his pride was as big as his body.

	“Who is this,” he cried, “that goes before me to the hunting, and makes so great a stride? Does he think to put me to shame?”

	“T’-sst!” said his mother, “there is none greater than thou.”

	“Still, there are the footprints in the trail,” said Tavwots.

	And the next morning he got up earlier; but still the great footprints and the mighty stride were before him. The next morning he got up still earlier; but there were the mighty foot-tracks and the long, long stride.

	“Now I will set me a trap for this impudent fellow,” said Tavwots, for he was very cunning. So he made a snare of his bowstring and set it in the trail overnight.

	And when in the morning he went to look, behold, he had caught the sun in his snare! All that part of the earth was beginning to smoke with the heat of it.

	“Is it you who made the tracks in my trail?” cried Tavwots.

	“It is I,” said the sun; “come and set me free, before the whole earth is afire.”

	Then Tavwots saw what he had to do, and he drew his sharp hunting-knife and ran to cut the bowstring. But the heat was so great that he ran back before he had done it; and when he ran back he was melted down to half his size! Then the earth began to burn, and the smoke curled up against the sky.

	“Come again, Tavwots,” cried the sun.

	And Tavwots ran again to cut the bowstring. But the heat was so great that he ran back before he had done it, and he was melted down to a quarter of his size!

	“Come again, Tavwots, and quickly,” cried the sun, “or all the world will be burnt up.”

	And Tavwots ran again; this time he cut the bowstring and set the sun free. But when he got back he was melted down to the size he is now! Only one thing is left of all his greatness: you may still see by the print of his feet as he leaps in the trail, how great his stride was when he caught the sun in his snare.


 

Back
Next









            This collection of children's literature is a part of the Educational Technology Clearinghouse and is funded by various grants.
          

            Copyright © 2006—2025 by the Florida Center for Instructional Technology, College of Education, University of South Florida.
          


License
Credits
FAQ
Giving




This document was downloaded from Lit2Go, a free online collection of stories and poems in Mp3 (audiobook) format published by the Florida Center for Instructional Technology. For more information, including classroom activities, readability data, and original sources, please visit https://etc.usf.edu/lit2go/68/fairy-tales-and-other-traditional-stories/5103/the-story-of-little-tavwots/.


Lit2Go: Fairy Tales and Other Traditional Stories
“The Story of Little Tavwots”






