


“The Wise Men of Gotham” | Fairy Tales and Other Traditional Stories | FCIT | Lit2Go ETC










 

Lit2Go







Authors
Books
Genres
Collections
Readability







Fairy Tales and Other Traditional Stories


      by FCIT



    “The Wise Men of Gotham”  

    by FCIT




        Additional Information
      



Year Published:
            1917          

Language:
            English          

Country of Origin:
            England          

Source:
            Withers, S., Browne, H. S., Tate, W. K. (1917).  The Child's World Third Reader.  New York: Johnson Publishing Company.          





Readability:


                Flesch–Kincaid Level:
                2.0




Word Count:
            455          





Genre:
Fairy Tale/Folk Tale


Keywords:
            problem solving          

✎ Cite This




Share
|











Downloads


Audio


Passage PDF

Student Activity








APA


MLA


Chicago






            FCIT, . (1917). “The Wise Men of Gotham”. Fairy Tales and Other Traditional Stories (Lit2Go Edition). Retrieved October 02, 2025, from https://etc.usf.edu/lit2go/68/fairy-tales-and-other-traditional-stories/5110/the-wise-men-of-gotham/




            FCIT, . "“The Wise Men of Gotham”." Fairy Tales and Other Traditional Stories. Lit2Go Edition. 1917. Web. <https://etc.usf.edu/lit2go/68/fairy-tales-and-other-traditional-stories/5110/the-wise-men-of-gotham/>. October 02, 2025.
          



             FCIT, "“The Wise Men of Gotham”," Fairy Tales and Other Traditional Stories, Lit2Go Edition, (1917), accessed October 02, 2025, https://etc.usf.edu/lit2go/68/fairy-tales-and-other-traditional-stories/5110/the-wise-men-of-gotham/.
          



 

Back
Next








                        The embedded audio player requires a modern internet browser. You should visit Browse Happy and update your internet browser today!
          

	Once upon a time there were some fishermen who lived in Gotham. Listen and you will hear how wise they were or were not.

	Twelve of these friends went fishing one day. Some went into the stream and some stayed on dry ground. They caught many fish and had a good time.

	As they walked home, one of the men said, “We have risked much wading in that stream. I hope no one of us is drowned.”

	“Why, one of us might be drowned! Who knows?” cried another. “Let’s see about it. Twelve of us went fishing this morning. We must count and see if twelve are returning.”

	So one man counted, “One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven.”

	“Alas! One of us is drowned!” he cried.

	“Woe be unto us! Let me count,” said another. “One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven.”

	“Alas! alas!” he wailed; “truly one of us is drowned!”


	Then every man counted, and each one counted eleven.

	“Alas! alas!” they all cried; “one of us is drowned! Which one is it?”

	They went back to the shore, and they looked up and down for him that was drowned. All the time they were crying and lamenting loudly.

	Another neighbor came strolling by. “What are you seeking?” he asked, “and why are you so sorrowful?”

	“Oh,” said they, “this day we came to fish in the stream. There were twelve of us, but one is drowned.”

	“Why,” said the neighbor, “count yourselves and see how many there are.”

	Again they counted, and again each man counted eleven.

	“Well, this is sad,” said the neighbor, who saw how the fishermen all counted eleven. “What will you give me if I find the twelfth man?”

	“Sir,” cried all together, “you may have all the money we own.”

	“Give me the money,” said the neighbor

	Then he began to count. He gave the first man a whack over the shoulders and said, “There is one.”

	He gave the next a whack and said, “There is two.” And so he counted until he came to the last man. He gave this one a sounding blow, saying, “And here is the twelfth.”

	“Oh thank you!” cried all the company of twelve. “You have found our friend.”

	Did the neighbor really find their friend? Was one fisherman ever lost? How do you know?


 

Back
Next









            This collection of children's literature is a part of the Educational Technology Clearinghouse and is funded by various grants.
          

            Copyright © 2006—2025 by the Florida Center for Instructional Technology, College of Education, University of South Florida.
          


License
Credits
FAQ
Giving




This document was downloaded from Lit2Go, a free online collection of stories and poems in Mp3 (audiobook) format published by the Florida Center for Instructional Technology. For more information, including classroom activities, readability data, and original sources, please visit https://etc.usf.edu/lit2go/68/fairy-tales-and-other-traditional-stories/5110/the-wise-men-of-gotham/.


Lit2Go: Fairy Tales and Other Traditional Stories
“The Wise Men of Gotham”






