


“Mother Nature’s House Cleaning” | Buttercup Gold and Other Stories | Ellen Robena Field | Lit2Go ETC










 

Lit2Go







Authors
Books
Genres
Collections
Readability







Buttercup Gold and Other Stories


      by Ellen Robena Field


      “Mother Nature’s House Cleaning”    




        Additional Information
      



Year Published:
            1894          

Language:
            English          

Country of Origin:
            United States of America          

Source:
            Field, E.R. (1894)  Buttercup Gold and Other Stories  Bangor: C. H. Glass          





Readability:


                Flesch–Kincaid Level:
                7.0




Word Count:
            400          





Genre:
Fairy Tale/Folk Tale


Keywords:
            19th century literature, children's literature, short stories          

✎ Cite This




Share
|











Downloads


Audio


Passage PDF

Student Activity








APA


MLA


Chicago






            Field, E. (1894). “Mother Nature’s House Cleaning”. Buttercup Gold and Other Stories (Lit2Go Edition). Retrieved October 02, 2025, from https://etc.usf.edu/lit2go/165/buttercup-gold-and-other-stories/2898/mother-natures-house-cleaning/




            Field, Ellen Robena. "“Mother Nature’s House Cleaning”." Buttercup Gold and Other Stories. Lit2Go Edition. 1894. Web. <https://etc.usf.edu/lit2go/165/buttercup-gold-and-other-stories/2898/mother-natures-house-cleaning/>. October 02, 2025.
          



            Ellen Robena Field, "“Mother Nature’s House Cleaning”," Buttercup Gold and Other Stories, Lit2Go Edition, (1894), accessed October 02, 2025, https://etc.usf.edu/lit2go/165/buttercup-gold-and-other-stories/2898/mother-natures-house-cleaning/.
          



 

Back
Next








                        The embedded audio player requires a modern internet browser. You should visit Browse Happy and update your internet browser today!
          

	One morning Mother Nature stood at the door of her house looking out over the world. King Winter’s reign was over and he had gone back to his home at the North Pole; and Spring was coming over the hill with her three little helpers to make Mother Nature a visit.

	Let us see who these helpers were. First there was roguish March with his rosy cheeks, and his curly hair flying in the winds that blew all about him. Next came Baby April with her apron full of violets, daffodillies, and green grasses. Part of the time she smiled sweetly, and part of it she frowned till the big teardrops chased each other down her cheeks. Last came May, playing tag with the sunbeams, wandering knee-deep in flowers, and calling to the birds that sang around her:

	Mother Nature watched them coming and murmured, “Such a dirty world as King Winter has left behind him! It must be cleaned up before the little girls, April and May, come, but March I am sure will want to help me do it.”

	She beckoned to the frolicsome boy who came racing down the hill to see what she wanted. “I must have some rain to wash away all this dirty snow,” she said; so March whistled to the East Wind, who blew together the rain-clouds, and soon the tiny rain drops were busy at work washing the floors of the world, and in a short time the snow was all gone. Then Mother Nature wanted the sky ceilings cleaned, so this time March whistled to the West Wind who began to sweep away the cloud cobwebs from the sky till the cheery old sun smiled again, and shone Mother Nature a bright “good morning.”

	“Now March,” said she, “there is one more thing you can do to help. You must start the work for Baby April.” Then March, with the South Wind to help him, awoke the seeds, whispered to the trees to begin to bud, started the brooks singing, and called the robins back from the South.

	When his visit was over Mother Nature thanked him for helping her so well on all of the thirty-one days he had spent with her, and told him she would send for him again when her next cleaning day came around.


 

Back
Next









            This collection of children's literature is a part of the Educational Technology Clearinghouse and is funded by various grants.
          

            Copyright © 2006—2025 by the Florida Center for Instructional Technology, College of Education, University of South Florida.
          


License
Credits
FAQ
Giving




This document was downloaded from Lit2Go, a free online collection of stories and poems in Mp3 (audiobook) format published by the Florida Center for Instructional Technology. For more information, including classroom activities, readability data, and original sources, please visit https://etc.usf.edu/lit2go/165/buttercup-gold-and-other-stories/2898/mother-natures-house-cleaning/.


Lit2Go: Buttercup Gold and Other Stories
“Mother Nature’s House Cleaning”






