


“Glories” | Buttercup Gold and Other Stories | Ellen Robena Field | Lit2Go ETC










 

Lit2Go







Authors
Books
Genres
Collections
Readability







Buttercup Gold and Other Stories


      by Ellen Robena Field


      “Glories”    




        Additional Information
      



Year Published:
            1894          

Language:
            English          

Country of Origin:
            United States of America          

Source:
            Field, E.R. (1894)  Buttercup Gold and Other Stories  Bangor: C. H. Glass          





Readability:


                Flesch–Kincaid Level:
                5.7




Word Count:
            622          





Genre:
Fairy Tale/Folk Tale


Keywords:
            19th century literature, children's literature, short stories          

✎ Cite This




Share
|











Downloads


Audio


Passage PDF

Student Activity








APA


MLA


Chicago






            Field, E. (1894). “Glories”. Buttercup Gold and Other Stories (Lit2Go Edition). Retrieved October 02, 2025, from https://etc.usf.edu/lit2go/165/buttercup-gold-and-other-stories/2918/glories/




            Field, Ellen Robena. "“Glories”." Buttercup Gold and Other Stories. Lit2Go Edition. 1894. Web. <https://etc.usf.edu/lit2go/165/buttercup-gold-and-other-stories/2918/glories/>. October 02, 2025.
          



            Ellen Robena Field, "“Glories”," Buttercup Gold and Other Stories, Lit2Go Edition, (1894), accessed October 02, 2025, https://etc.usf.edu/lit2go/165/buttercup-gold-and-other-stories/2918/glories/.
          



 

Back
Next








                        The embedded audio player requires a modern internet browser. You should visit Browse Happy and update your internet browser today!
          

	Laura was tired of playing with her dolls, and tired of taking care of Baby Donald, too, he was such a big baby, and she was a little girl for nine years old. So as soon as naptime came, and baby was at last quiet, Laura went out on the porch and cuddled down in the hammock, where she swung to and fro, wishing there was something nice to do, or some new kinds of dolls to play with. All at once she thought she heard a faint voice say, “What a queer child! Here she is wishing for some new plaything, and has never noticed us. She must be blind, poor child! For every morning we put on our prettiest dresses and smile at her; but she always passes us by.”

	“Yes,” replied another voice, “when she came out here to lie down in the hammock, I brushed her hair softly and left a kiss on her forehead; but she shook me off as if I were a bee trying to sting her.”

	Laura sat up, rubbed her eyes, and looked around in surprise. Had some one really spoken, or had she only fallen asleep and dreamed it all?

	She could see nothing except the morning glories which covered the side of the porch. There seemed to be hundreds of them, blue, white, pink, and violet; and how wide awake they looked! “It must have been the ‘glories’ talking,” said Laura, “but I didn’t know glories could talk. Can you, dear glories?”

	The flowers nodded, as if they understood what she said.

	“What pretty colors! I never half noticed them before,” went on Laura, “and wouldn’t that blue one make a lovely dress?”

	Just then wee Donald, fresh from his nap, came toddling out through the open door, and stretched his little fat hands to the glories. “Baby wants a trumpet,” he cried.

	Laura laughed aloud as she said: “Why, they do look like trumpets, and like parasols, too;” and she gathered a handful of the blossoms and sprinkled the porch with their brightness. “Let’s play with them, baby; see if we can make some dolls;” and Laura stood a glory on the step, and into the tiny hole stuck the yellow center of a daisy, whose petals she had pulled out. On this center she marked eyes, nose, and mouth; and when a small glory was added for a bonnet, what a pretty flower doll she had, with a pink skirt, green waist, and white bonnet! Then a whole family of glories were made, and Laura gave them each a parasol to carry.

	Baby used his glories for tents, and they had a good time playing, and Laura wished she had noticed the glories more before.

	By and by, when the day was over, and Laura sat again in the hammock, watching the sleeping glories, she said: “I wonder if the glories could have been talking this morning;” and one little sleepy bud looked as if it could tell if it chose. But Mamma put her arm about the little girl and said, “I think it was a dream, dear. But if the flowers could speak I think they would tell my darling that by using her eyes more, she will find out how much there is that is beautiful, and God made them all for us to enjoy, because he loves us. Every flower that blooms its sweetest, and every child who tries to be good, is a precious part of our Heavenly Father’s glories.”


 

Back
Next









            This collection of children's literature is a part of the Educational Technology Clearinghouse and is funded by various grants.
          

            Copyright © 2006—2025 by the Florida Center for Instructional Technology, College of Education, University of South Florida.
          


License
Credits
FAQ
Giving




This document was downloaded from Lit2Go, a free online collection of stories and poems in Mp3 (audiobook) format published by the Florida Center for Instructional Technology. For more information, including classroom activities, readability data, and original sources, please visit https://etc.usf.edu/lit2go/165/buttercup-gold-and-other-stories/2918/glories/.


Lit2Go: Buttercup Gold and Other Stories
“Glories”






