
Charles Dickens

The Personal History and Experience of David Copperfield the Younger by Charles Dickens

To begin my life with the beginning of my life I record that I was born as I have been informed
and believe on a Friday at 12 o'clock at night. It was remarked that the clock began to strike
and I began to cry simultaneously. The place was Blunderstone in Suffolk. I was a posthumous
child. My father's eyes had closed upon the light of this world six months when mine opened on it.
An aunt of my father's and consequently a great aunt of mine, of whom I shall have more to relate
by and by, was the principal magnet of our family. Miss Trotwood, or Miss Betsy as my poor mother
always called her, had been married to her husband younger than herself. He was strongly suspected
of having beaten Miss Betsy and even of having once on a disputed question of supplies made some
hasty but determined arrangements to throw her out of a two-pair-of-stairs window. These evidences
of an incompatibility of temper induced Miss Betsy to pay him off and effect a separation
by mutual consent. Immediately upon the separation she took her maiden name again, bought a cottage
in a hamlet on the sea coast a long way off, established herself there as a single woman
with one servant, and was understood to live secluded ever afterwards in an inflexible retirement.
This was a state of matters on the afternoon of what I may be excused for calling that eventful
and important Friday. My mother was sitting by the fire that bright wingedy march afternoon,
very timid and sad and very doubtful of ever coming alive out of the trial that was before her.
When lifting her eyes as she dried them to the window opposite she saw a strange lady coming
up the garden. My mother had a sure foreboding at the second glance that it was Miss Betsy.
The setting sun was glowing on the strange lady over the garden fence and she came walking up
to the door with a fell rigidity of figure and composure of countenance that could have belonged
to nobody else. When she reached the house she made a frown and a gesture to my mother
like one who was accustomed to be obeyed to come and open the door.
Mrs. David Copperfield?
Yes, said my mother faintly.
Miss Trotwood, said the visitor, you have heard of her, I dare say, now you see her.
When they were both seated and Miss Betsy said nothing, my mother, after vainly trying to restrain
herself, began to cry. Oh, ta-ta-ta, said Miss Betsy in a hurry, don't do that.
Come, come, take off your cap, child, said Miss Betsy, and let me see you.
My mother did as she was told and did it with such nervous hands that her hair,
which was luxuriant and beautiful, fell all about her face.
I bless my heart, exclaimed Miss Betsy, you are a very baby.
And when do you expect, I am all in a tremble, faulted my mother.
I don't know what's the matter, I shall die, I'm sure.
No, no, no, said Miss Betsy, have some tea.
What do you call your servant girl?
Pegaty, said my mother.
Here, Pegaty, cried Miss Betsy, opening the parlour door.
Tea, your mistress is a little unwell, don't dawdle.
Miss Betsy shut the door again and sat down.
I have no doubt the child will be a girl, I have a presentiment that it must be a girl.
Now, child, from the moment of the birth of this girl, I intend to be her friend.
I intend to be her godmother, and I beg you to call her Betsy Trotwood Copperfield.
She must be well brought up, and well guarded from reposing any foolish confidences where
they are not deserved. I must make that my care.
Pegaty, coming in with the teaboard and candles, and seeing at a glance how ill my mother was,
conveyed her upstairs to her own room with all speed, and immediately dispatched
Ham Pegaty, her nephew, to fetch the nurse and doctor.
Those allied powers were considerably astonished when they arrived within a few minutes of
each other to find an unknown lady of portentous appearance sitting before the fire,
with her bonnet tied over her left arm, stopping her ears with jeweller's cotton.
When the doctor came downstairs, my aunt was ready for him.
How is she? said she.
Well, Mum, she will soon be quite comfortable, I hope, he returned,
quite as comfortable as we can expect a young mother to be under these melancholy domestic
circumstances. And she? how is she? said my aunt sharply.
Mum, returned the doctor, I apprehended you had known. It's a boy.
My aunt said never a word, but took her bonnet by the strings, walked out, and never came back.
The first objects that assume a distinct presence before me,
as I look far back into the blank of my infancy, are my mother, with her pretty hair and youthful
shape, and Pegaty, with no shape at all, and eyes so dark that they seemed to darken their
whole neighbourhood in her face, and cheeks and arms so hard and red that I wondered the birds
didn't peck her in preference to apples. Pegaty and I were sitting one night by the
pile of fire alone. I had been reading to Pegaty about crocodiles. I must have read
very perspicuously, or the poor soul must have been deeply interested, for I remember
she had a cloudy impression, after I had done, that they were a sort of vegetable.
I was tired of reading and dead sleepy, but having leave as a high treat to sit up until
my mother came home from spending the evening at her neighbours, I would rather have died upon my
post, of course, than have gone to bed. We had exhausted the crocodiles and begun with the
alligators when the garden bell rang. We went out to the door, and there was my mother,
looking unusually pretty, I thought, and with her a gentleman with beautiful black hair and whiskers,
who had walked home with us from church last Sunday. He patted me on the head,
but somehow I didn't like him, or his deep voice, and I was jealous that his hand
should touch my mother's in touching me, which it did. I put it away as well as I could.
Oh, Davy, remonstrated my mother.
Dear boy, said the gentleman, I cannot wonder at his devotion.
At this minute I see him turn round in the garden, and give us a last look with his ill-oamened
black eyes before the door was shut. Pegaty, who had not said a word or moved a finger,
secured the fastenings instantly, and we all went into the parlour.
My mother, contrary to her usual habit, instead of coming to the elbow chair by the fire,
remained at the other end of the room, and sat singing to herself.
Hope you have had a pleasant evening, ma'am, said Pegaty, standing as stiff as a barrel in the
centre of the room, with a candlestick in her hand. Much obliged to you, Pegaty,
returned my mother in a cheerful voice. I have had a very pleasant evening.
Pegaty began to be less with us of an evening than she had always been.
My mother deferred to her very much. More than usual it occurred to me,
and we were all three excellent friends. Still we were different from what we used to be,
and were not so comfortable among ourselves. Sometimes I fancied that Pegaty perhaps objected
to my mother's wearing all the pretty dresses she had in her drawers, or to going so often to visit
at that neighbour's, but I couldn't, to my satisfaction, make out how it was.
Gradually I became used to seeing the gentleman with the black whiskers,
but I liked him no better than at first, and had the same uneasy jealousy of him.
It was probably about two months afterwards when Pegaty broached the striking and adventurous
proposition I am about to mention. We were sitting as before, one evening, when my mother was out,
as before, when Pegaty, after looking at me several times, and opening her mouth as if she
were going to speak without doing it, said coaxingly, Master Davy, how should you like to
go along with me and spend a fortnight at my brother's at Yarmouth? Wouldn't that be a treat?
Is your brother an agreeable man, Pegaty? I inquired provisionally.
Oh, what an agreeable man he is! cried Pegaty, holding up her hands.
Then there's the sea, and the boats, and ships, and the fishermen, and the beach,
and am to play with. Pegaty meant her nephew Ham, but she spoke of him as a morsel of English grammar.
I was flushed by her summary of delights, and replied that it would indeed be a treat,
but what would my mother say?
I'll as good as better guinea, said Pegaty, intent upon my face, that she'll let us go.
I'll ask her if she'd like, as soon as ever she comes home. There now.
But what's she to do while we're away? said I, putting my small elbows on the table to argue
the point. She can't live by herself. Oh, bless you, said Pegaty. Don't you know
she's going to stay for a fortnight with Mrs. Graeper.
Mrs. Graeper's going to have a lot of company.
Oh, if that was it, I was quite ready to go.
It touches me nearly now, although I tell it lightly, to recollect how eager I was to leave
my happy home, to think how little I suspected what I did leave forever.
The Carrier's Horse was the laziest horse in the world, I should hope, and shuffled along with his
head down as if he liked to keep people waiting to whom the packages were directed.
We made so many deviations up and down lanes and were such a long time delivering a bedstead
at a public house and calling it other places that I was quite tired and very glad when we saw
Yarmouth. It looked rather spongy and soppy, I thought, as I carried my eye over the great
dull waste that lay across the river. And I could not help wondering if the world
were really as round as my geography book said how any part of it came to be so flat.
When we got into the street, which was strange enough to me, and smelt the fish and pitch and
oakum and tar and saw the sailors walking about and the carts jingling up and down over the stones,
I felt that I had done so busy a place in injustice and said as much to Pegatee,
who told me it was well known that Yarmouth was, upon the whole, the finest place in the universe.
Here is my arm, screamed Pegatee, rowed out of knowledge.
Ham, carrying me on his back and a small box of ours under his arm, and Pegatee,
carrying another small box of ours, we walked until we came out upon the dull waste I had
already seen at a distance. When Ham said, Yarns our house, Mazra Davy. I looked in all directions
as far as I could stare over the wilderness and away at the sea and away at the river,
but no house could I make out.
That's not it, said I, that ship-looking thing. That's it, Mazra Davy, returned Ham.
If it had been Aladdin's palace, rock's egg and all, I suppose I could not have been more
charmed with the romantic idea of living in it. There was a delightful door cut in the side,
and it was roofed in, and there were little windows in it. But the wonderful charm of it was,
that it was a real boat, which had no doubt been upon the water hundreds of times,
and which had never been intended to be lived in on dry land.
It was beautifully clean inside, and as tidy as possible. There was a table and a Dutch
clock and a chest of drawers, and on the chest of drawers there was a tea-tray with a painting
on it of a lady with a parasol taking a walk with a military-looking child who was trundling a hoop.
All this I saw in the first glance after I crossed the threshold,
and then Pegaty opened a little door and showed me my bedroom. It was the completeest
and most desirable bedroom ever seen in the stern of the vessel. With a little window,
where the rudder used to go through, a little looking-glass, just the right height for me,
nailed against the wall, and framed with oyster shells, a little bed, which there was just enough
room to get into, and a nose-gay of seaweed in a blue mug on the table. We were welcomed by a very
civil woman in a white apron, whom I had seen curtsying at the door when I was on Ham's back
about a quarter of a mile off. Likewise by a most beautiful little girl, all I thought her so,
with a necklace of blue beads on, who wouldn't let me kiss her when I offered to, but ran away
and hit herself. By and by, when we had dined in a sumptuous manner of boiled dabs,
melted butter and potatoes, with a chop for me, a hairy man with a very good-natured face came home.
As he called Pegaty, lass, and gave her a hearty kiss on the cheek, I had no doubt from the general
propriety of her conduct that he was her brother, and so he turned out, being presently introduced
to me as Mr. Pegaty, the master of the house. Glad to see you, sir, said Mr. Pegaty.
You'll find us, Rob, sir, but you'll find us ready.
After tea, when the door was shut and all was made snug, the night's being cold and misty now,
it seemed to me the most delicious retreat that the imagination of man could conceive,
to hear the wind getting about at sea, to know that the fog was creeping over the desolate flat
outside, and to look at the fire and think that there was no house near but this one,
and this one, a boat, was like enchantment. Little Emily had overcome her shyness and
was sitting by my side upon the lowest and least of the lockers, which was just large enough for
us too, and just fitted into the chimney corner. I felt it was a time for conversation and confidence.
Mr. Pegaty, says I, Sir, says he. Did you give your son the name of Ham because you lived in a
sort of ark? Mr. Pegaty seemed to think it a deep idea, but answered, No, sir, I never give him no name.
Who gave him that name, then, said I, putting question number two of the catechism to Mr. Pegaty.
Why, sir, his father gave him, said Mr. Pegaty. I thought you were his father.
My brother, Joel, was his father, said Mr. Pegaty.
Dead, Mr. Pegaty, I hinted after a respectful pause. Drowned dead, said Mr. Pegaty.
I was very much surprised that Mr. Pegaty was not Ham's father and began to wonder whether I was
mistaken about his relationship to anybody else there. I was so curious to know that I made up
my mind to have it out with Mr. Pegaty. Little Emily, I said, blancing at her, she is your daughter.
Isn't she, Mr. Pegaty? No, sir. My brother-in-law, Tom, was her father.
I couldn't help it.
Dead, Mr. Pegaty, I hinted after another respectful silence. Drowned dead, said Mr. Pegaty.
I felt the difficulty of resuming the subject, but had not got to the bottom of it yet,
and must get to the bottom somehow. So I said, haven't you any children, Mr. Pegaty?
No, master. He answered with a short laugh. I'm a bachelor.
A bachelor, I said astonished. Why, who's that, Mr. Pegaty, pointing to the person in the apron
who was knitting? That's Mrs. Gummidge, said Mr. Pegaty. Gummidge, Mr. Pegaty.
But at this point, Pegaty, I mean my own peculiar Pegaty, made such impressive notions to me not
to ask any more questions, that I could only sit and look at all this island company until it
was time to go to bed. Then in the privacy of my own little cabin, she informed me that Ham
and Emily were an orphan, nephew, and niece, whom my host had at different times adopted in
their childhood, when they were left destitute, and that Mrs. Gummidge was the widow of his partner
in a boat who had died very poor. He was but a poor man himself, said Pegaty, but as good as gold
and as true as steel, those were her similes. Almost as morning shone upon the oyster-shell
frame of my mirror, I was out of bed and out with little Emily, picking up stones upon the beach.
You're quite a sailor, I suppose, I said to Emily.
No, replied Emily, shaking her head. I'm afraid of the sea. Afraid, I said, with the becoming air
of boldness and looking very big at the mighty ocean. I aren't. But it's cruel, said Emily.
I've seen it very cruel to some of our men. I've seen it tear a boat as big as her house,
all to pieces. I hope it wasn't the boat that that father was grounded in, said Emily. No,
not that one. I never see that boat. Nor him, I asked her. Little Emily shook her head. Not to
remember. Here was a coincidence. I immediately went into an explanation how I had never seen my
own father, and how my mother and I had always lived by ourselves in the happiest state imaginable,
and lived so then, and always meant to live so. But, said Emily, as she looked about for shells
and pebbles, your father was a gentleman, and your mother was a lady, and my father was a fisherman,
and my mother was a fisherman's daughter, and my uncle Dan is a fisherman.
Dan is Mr. Pegaty, is he? said I. Uncle Dan, you're under. Answered Emily, nodding at the boat house.
You would like to be a lady, I said. Emily looked at me, and laughed, and nodded. Yes.
We used to walk about that dim old flat at Yamath in a loving manner, hours and hours. The day
sported by us as if time had not grown up himself yet, but were a child too, and always at play.
I told Emily I adored her, and that unless she confessed she adored me, I should be reduced to
the necessity of killing myself as a sword. She said she did, and I have no doubt she did.
At last the day came for going home. I bore up against the separation from Mr. Pegaty and
Mrs. Gummidge, but my agony of mind at leaving little Emily was piercing.
We went arm in arm to the public house where the carrier put up, and I promised on the road to write
to her. Now all the time I had been on my visit, I had been ungrateful to my home again, and had
thought little or nothing about it. But I was no sooner turned towards it, and my reproachful young
conscience seemed to point that way with a ready finger, so that the nearer we drew the more familiar
the objects became that we passed, the more excited I was to get there and to run into my mother's
arms. But Pegaty, instead of sharing in those transports, tried to check them, though very kindly,
and looked confused and out of sorts. Blundest and Rookery would come, however,
in spite of her, when the carrier's horse pleased, and did. How well I recollected,
on a cold gray afternoon, with a dull sky threatening rain. The door opened, and I looked,
half laughing, and half crying in my pleasant agitation for my mother. It was not she, but a
strange servant. Why, Pegaty, I said ruefully, isn't she come home? Oh, yes, yes, Master Davey,
said Pegaty. She's come home. Wait a bit, Master Davey, and I'll tell you something.
Pegaty said I had quite frightened. What's the matter? Nothing's the matter. Bless you, Master
Davey, dear, she answered, assuming an air of sprightliness. You see, dear, I should have told
you before now, said Pegaty, but I hadn't an opportunity. I ought to have made it, perhaps,
but I couldn't as aptly bring my mind to it. Master Davey, said Pegaty, speaking in a breathless
sort of way. What do you think? You've got a paw. I trembled, and turned white.
A new one, said Pegaty. We went straight to the best parlor where she left me. On one side of
the fire sat my mother. On the other, Mr. Murdston. My mother dropped her work and arose hurriedly,
but timidly, I thought. Now, Clara, my dear, said Mr. Murdston, recollect, control yourself,
always control yourself. Davey boy, how do you do? I gave him my hand. After a moment of suspense,
I went and kissed my mother. She kissed me, patted me gently on the shoulder,
and sat down again to her work. I could not look at her. I could not look at him. I knew quite well
that he was looking at us both. And I turned to the window and looked out there at some shrubs
that were drooping their heads in the cold. As soon as I could creep away, I crept upstairs.
My old dear bedroom was changed, and I was to lie a long way off.
God help me. I might have been improved for my whole life. I might have been made another creature,
perhaps, for life by a kind word at that season, a word of encouragement, an explanation of pity
for my childish ignorance, of welcome home, of reassurance to me that it was home, might have
made me respect instead of hate him. We dined alone, we three together. He seemed to be very fond of
my mother, and she was very fond of him. I gathered from what they said that an elder sister of his
was coming to stay with them, and that she was expected that evening. After dinner, when we
were sitting by the fire, the coach drove up to the garden gate, and we went out to receive the
visitor. It was Miss Mertston who was arrived, and a gloomy looking lady she was. Dark, like her
brother, whom she greatly resembled in face and voice, and with very heavy eyebrows, nearly
meeting over her large nose. She was brought into the parlour with many tokens of welcome,
and there formally recognised my mother as a new and mere relation. Then she looked at me and said,
Is that your boy, sister-in-law? My mother acknowledged me.
Generally speaking, said Miss Mertston, I don't like boys. As well as I could make out,
she had come for good, and had no intention of ever going again.
There had been some talk on occasions of my going to boarding school.
Mr. and Miss Mertston had originated it, and my mother had, of course, agreed with them.
Nothing, however, was concluded on the subject yet. In the meantime, I learnt lessons at home.
Shall I ever forget those lessons? They were presided over nominally by my mother,
but really by Mr. Mertston and his sister, who were always present, and found them a favourable
occasion for giving my mother lessons in that miscalled firmness which was the bane of both our
lives. I believe I was kept at home for that purpose. I had been apt enough to learn, and
willing enough, when my mother and I had lived alone together. I can faintly remember learning the
alphabet at her knee, but these solemn lessons which succeeded those, I remember as the death
blow of my peace and a grievous daily drudgery and misery. The natural result of this treatment,
continued, I suppose, for some six months or more, was to make me sullen, dull, and dogged.
I believe I should have been almost stupefied, but for one circumstance it was this.
My father had left a small collection of books in a little room upstairs, to which I had access
for it to join to my own, and which nobody else in our house ever troubled. From that
blessed little room, Roderick Random, Peregrine Pickle, Humphrey Clinker, Tom Jones, The Vicar
of Wakefield, Don Quixote, Gil Blass, and Robinson Crusoe came out, a glorious host to keep me company.
They kept alive my fancy, and my hope of something beyond that place and time.
They and the Arabian knights and the tales of the genie, and did me no harm.
For whatever harm was in some of them was not there for me. I knew nothing of it.
One morning, when I went into the parlor with my books, I found my mother looking anxious,
Miss Merdstone looking firm, and Mr. Merdstone binding something round the bottom of a cane,
which he poised and switched in the air.
Now, David, he said, you must be far more careful today than usual.
He gave the cane another poise and another switch, and having finished his preparation of it,
laid it down beside him with an impressive look, and took up his book.
We began badly, and went on worse. I had come in with an idea of distinguishing myself rather,
conceiving that I was very well prepared, but it turned out to be quite a mistake.
Book after book was added to the heap of failures.
David, you and I will go upstairs, boy.
As he took me out at the door, I saw my mother stop her ears, and I heard her crying.
He walked me up to my room slowly and gravely, and when we got there, suddenly twisted my head
under his arm.
Mr. Merdstone, sir, I cried at him.
Don't, pray, don't beat me. I've tried to learn, sir, but I can't learn while you and Miss Merdstone
are by. I can't indeed.
Can't you indeed, David? he said.
We'll try that. He had my head as in a vice, but I twined round him somehow, and stopped him for
a moment. It was only a moment that I stopped him, for he cut me heavily an instant afterwards,
and in the same instant I caught the hand with which he held me, in my mouth, between my teeth,
and bit it through. It sets my teeth on edge to think of it.
He beat me then, as if he would have beaten me to death. Above all the noise we made,
I heard them running up the stairs and crying out. I heard my mother crying out, and pegged it.
Then he was gone, and the door was locked outside.
I was lying, fevered and hot, and torn and sore and raging in my puny way upon the floor.
How well I recollect when I became quiet what an unnatural stillness seemed to reign through the
whole house. How well I remember when my smart and passionate began to cool. How wicked I began to feel.
Long after it was dark, I sat there wondering whether anybody would come.
When this appeared improbable for that night, I undressed and went to bed.
And there I began to wonder fearfully what would be done to me, whether it was a criminal act that
I had committed, whether I should be taken into custody and sent to prison, whether I was at all
in danger of being hanged. Miss Murdston reappeared before I was out of bed, told me in so many
words that I was free to walk in the garden for half an hour and no longer, and retired leaving
the door open that I might avail myself of that permission. I did so, and did so every morning
of my imprisonment which lasted five days. I saw no one, Miss Murdston accepted during the whole
time, accepted evening prayers and the parlour, to which I was escorted by Miss Murdston after
everybody else was placed. I only observed that my mother was as far off from me as she could be,
and that Mr. Murdston's hand was bound up in a large linen wrapper.
On the last morning, Miss Murdston appeared as usual and told me I was to be sent away to school.
She also informed me that when I was dressed I was to come downstairs into the parlour and have my
breakfast. There I found my mother, very pale and with red eyes, into whose arms I ran and begged
her pardon from my suffering soul. Oh, Davy, she said, that you could hurt anyone I love.
Try to be better, pray to be better. I forgive you, but I am so grieved, Davy,
that you should have such bad passions in your heart.
Master Copperfield's box there, said Miss Murdston, when wheels were heard at the gate.
We might have gone about half a mile, and my pocket handkerchief was quite wet through,
when the carrier stopped short. I saw to my amazement, pegaty, burst from a hedge and
climbed into the cart. She took me in both her arms and squeezed me to her stays until the pressure
on my nose was extremely painful, though I never thought of that till afterwards when I found it
very tender. Releasing one of her arms she brought out some paper bags of cakes which
she crammed into my pockets and a purse which she put into my hand, but not one word did she say.
After another and a final squeeze with both arms she got down from the cart and ran away.
I now had leisure to examine the purse. It was a stiff leather purse with a snap
and had three bright shillings in it which pegaty had evidently polished up with whitening
for my greater delight. But its most precious contents were two half crowns folded together
in a bit of paper on which was written in my mother's hand for Davy with my love.
After we had jogged on for some little time I asked the carrier if he was going all the way.
All the way where? inquired the carrier. There, I said.
Where's there? inquired the carrier.
Near London, I said.
Why that oars? said the carrier, joking the rain to point him out.
Would be deader than pork before he got over half the ground.
Are you only going to Yarmouth, then? I asked.
That's about it, said the carrier.
And there I shall take you to the stage-cutch, and the stage-cutch I'll take you to wherever it is.
As this was a great deal for the carrier, whose name was Mr. Barkas,
to say, I offered him a cake as a mark of attention, which he ate at one gulp, exactly
like an elephant, and which made no more impression on his big face than it would have done on an
elephant's. Dead she, make him, now? said Mr. Barkas, always leaning forward in his slouching way
on the footboard of the cart, with an arm on each knee. Peggity do me, sir.
Ah, said Mr. Barkas. Her. Yes, she makes all our pastry and does all our cooking.
Do she, though? said Mr. Barkas.
He made up his mouth as if to whistle, but he didn't whistle.
By and by, he said, no sweethearts, I believe?
Oh, no. She never had a sweetheart.
Didn't she, though? said Mr. Barkas.
So she makes, said Mr. Barkas, after a long interval of reflection,
all the apple pasties and does all the cooking. Do she? Wow.
I'll tell you what. Perhaps you might be right into her. Oh, I shall certainly write to her.
I rejoined. Ah, he said, slowly turning his eyes towards me.
Well, if you was right into her, perhaps you'd recollect to say that Barkas was well in.
Would you? That Barkas is willing, I repeated innocently. Is that all the message?
Yes, he said, considering. Yes, Barkas is willing.
While I was waiting for the coach in the hotel at Yarmouth that very afternoon,
I procured a sheet of paper and an ink stand, and wrote a note to Pegaty, which ran thus.
My dear Pegaty, I have come here safe. Barkas is willing. My love to Mamar, yours affectionately.
P.S. He says he particularly wants you to know Barkas is willing.
We started from Yarmouth at three o'clock in the afternoon, and we're due in London about eight
next morning. What an amazing place London was to me when I saw it in the distance.
We approached it by degrees and got, in due time, to the in and the white chapel district
for which we were bound. The guard's eye lighted on me as he was getting down,
and he set at the booking office door. Is there anybody here for a youngster
booked in the name of Murdston, from Blunderson, Suffolk, to be left to call for?
No, there was nobody. More solitary than Robinson Crusoe, who had nobody to look at him and see
that he was solitary. I went into the booking office, and by invitation of the clerk on duty,
passed behind the counter, and sat down on the scale at which they weighed the luggage.
Eventually a man entered and whispered to the clerk, who presently slanted me off the scale
and pushed me over to him as if I were weighed, bought, delivered, and paid for.
As I went out of the office, hand in hand with this new acquaintance, I stole a look at him.
He was a gaunt, sallow young man with hollow cheeks, and a chin almost as black as Mr Murdston's.
But there the likeness ended, for his whiskers were shaved off, and his hair,
instead of being glossy, was rusty and dry.
You're the new boy, he said.
Yes, sir, I said. I supposed I was, I didn't know.
I'm one of the masters at Salem House, he said.
I made him a bow, and felt very much overawed.
If you please, sir, I said. Is it far?
It's down by Blackheath, he said.
Is that far, sir? I diffidently asked.
It's a good step, he said. We shall go by the stagecoach. It's about six miles.
We found the coach very near at hand and got upon the roof.
But I was so dead sleepy, that when we stopped on the road to take up somebody else,
they put me inside, where there were no passengers, and where I slept profoundly
until I found the coach going at a foot pace up a steep hill among green leaves.
Presently, it stopped, and had come to its destination.
A short walk brought us to Salem House, which was enclosed with a high brick wall,
and looked very dull. Over a door in this wall was a board with Salem House upon it,
and through a grating in this door we were surveyed, when we rang the bell,
by a surly face, which I found on the door being opened,
belonged to a stout man with a bull neck, a wooden leg, overhanging temples,
and his hair cut close all round his head.
The new boy, said the master.
Salem House was a square brick building with wings of a bare and unfurnished appearance.
All about it was so very quiet that I said to Mr. Mel, the master,
I supposed the boys were out, but he seemed surprised at my not knowing that it was holiday time,
that all the boys were at their several homes, that Mr. Creakle, the proprietor,
was down by the seaside with Mrs. and Miss Creakle, and that I was sent in holiday time
as a punishment for my misdoing, all of which he explained to me as we went along.
I gazed upon the school room into which he took me as the most forlorn and desolate place I had
ever seen. I see it now, a long room with three long rows of desks and six of forms,
bristling all round with pegs for hats and slates, scraps of old copy books and exercises
lit at the dirty floor. Mr. Mel, having left me while he took himself upstairs,
I went softly to the upper end of the room, observing all this as I crept along.
Suddenly I came upon a paste-bored placard, beautifully written, which was lying on the desk,
and bore these words, take care of him, he bites. I got upon the desk immediately,
apprehensive of at least a great dog underneath, but though I looked all round with anxious eyes,
I could see nothing of him. I was still engaged in peering about when Mr. Mel came back and asked
me what I did up there. I beg your pardon, sir, says I, if you please, I'm looking for the dog.
Dog, he says. What dog? Isn't it a dog, sir? Isn't what a dog? That's to be taken care of, sir,
that bites. No copper field, says he gravely. That's not a dog, that's a boy.
My instructions are, copper field, to put this placard on your back.
I'm sorry to make such a beginning with you, but I must do it.
I had led this life about a month, when one day I was informed by Mr. Mel that Mr. Creekel
would be home that evening. Before bedtime I was fetched to appear before him.
So, said Mr. Creekel, this is the young gentleman whose teeth are to be viled.
Mr. Creekel's face was fiery, and his eyes were small and deep in his head. He had thick veins
in his forehead, a little nose, and a large chin. He was bald on the top of his head,
and had some thin, wet-looking hair that was just turning grey, brushed across each temple,
so that the two sides interlaced on his forehead. But the circumstance about him,
which impressed me most, was that he had no voice, but spoke in a whisper.
Now, said Mr. Creekel, what's the report of this boy?
There's nothing against him yet. Returned the man with a wooden leg.
There's been no opportunity.
Come here, sir, said Mr. Creekel, beckoning to me.
Come here, said the man with a wooden leg, repeating the gesture.
I have the happiness of knowing your father-in-law, whispered Mr. Creekel, taking me by the ear,
and a worthy man he is, and a man of strong character. He knows me, and I know him. Do you
know me, hey? said Mr. Creekel, pinching my ear with ferocious playfulness.
Not yet, sir, I said, flinching with a pain.
Not yet, hey? repeated Mr. Creekel.
But you will soon, hey?
You will soon, hey? repeated the man with a wooden leg, whose name was Tungay.
I afterwards found that he generally acted with his strong voice as Mr. Creekel's interpreter to the
boys. Tommy Traddles was the first boy who returned, which was a happy circumstance for me.
He enjoyed my placard so much that he saved me from the embarrassment of either disclosure or
concealment by presenting me to every other boy who came back, great or small, immediately on
his arrival, in this form of introduction. Look here, here's a game. I was not considered as
being formally received into the school, however, until J. Steerforth arrived. Before this boy,
who was reputed to be a great scholar, and was very good-looking, and at least half a dozen years
my senior, I was carried as before a magistrate. He inquired, under a shed in the playground,
into the particulars of my punishment, and was pleased to express his opinion that it was
a jolly shame for which I became bound to him ever afterwards.
What money have you got, Copperfield? he said, walking aside with me when he had disposed of
my affair and these terms. I told him seven shillings. You better give it to me to take care of,
he said. At least you can if you like, and even if you don't like. Perhaps you'd like to spend a
couple of shillings or so in a bottle of current wine by and by, up in the bedroom, said Steerforth.
You belong to my bedroom, I find. It certainly had not occurred to me before, but I said,
yes, I should like that. Very good, said Steerforth. You'll be glad to spend another
shilling or so in almond cakes, I dare say. I said yes, I should like that too.
And another shilling or so in biscuits and another in fruit, eh? said Steerforth.
I say, young Copperfield, you're going it. When we went upstairs to bed,
he produced the whole seven shillings worth and led it out of my bed in the moonlight, saying,
there you are, young Copperfield, and a royal spread we've got.
The greater part of the guests had gone to bed as soon as the eating and drinking were over,
and we, who had remained whispering and listening half undressed,
had last but took ourselves to bed too. Good night, young Copperfield, said Steerforth.
I'll take care of you.
School began in earnest next day. A profound impression was made upon me, I remember,
by the roar of voices in the school room suddenly becoming hushed as death,
when Mr. Creakle entered after breakfast and stood in the doorway, looking round upon us like a
giant in a storybook, surveying his captives. I should think there never can have been a man
who enjoyed his profession more than Mr. Creakle did. He had a delight in cutting at the boys,
which was like the satisfaction of a craving appetite. I'm confident that he couldn't resist
a chubby boy especially, that there was a fascination in such a subject which made him
restless in his mind until he had scored and marked him for the day. I was chubby myself,
and ought to know. Poor Traddles, in a tight sky blue suit that made his arms and legs like
German sausages or roly-poly puddings, he was the merriest and most miserable of all the boys.
He was always being caned. I think it was caned every day that half-year, except one holiday
Monday when he was only a ruler on both hands, and was always going to write to his uncle about it,
and never did. An accidental circumstance cemented the intimacy between steer-forth and me,
in a manner that inspired me with great pride and satisfaction, though it sometimes led to
inconvenience. It happened on one occasion, when he was doing me the honour of talking to me in
the playground, that I hazarded the observation that something or somebody—I forget what now—was
like something or somebody in Peregrine Pickle. He said nothing at the time, but when I was going
to bed at night, asked me if I had got that book. I told him no, and explained how it was that I
had read it, and all those other books of which I had made mention. And do you recollect them?
Steerforth said. Oh, yes, I replied. I had a good memory, and I believed I recollected them very well.
Then I tell you what, young Copperfield, said Steerforth. You shall tell him to me. I can't get
to sleep very early at night, and I generally wake up rather early in the morning. We'll go over
them one after another. We'll make some regular Arabian nights of it. One afternoon, when we were
all harassed into a state of dire confusion, and Mr. Creakle was laying about him dreadfully,
Tange came in, and called out in his usual strong way, visitors for Copperfield.
When I got to the parlour door, and the thought came into my head that it might be my mother,
I drew back my hand from the lock, and stopped to have a sob before I went in.
At first I saw nobody, but feeling a pressure against the door, I looked round it, and there,
to my amazement, were Mr. Pegaty and Ham ducking at me with their hats and squeezing one another
against the wall. Cheer up, Master Davybore, said Ham in his simpering way. Why, oh, you've grown.
Am I grown? I said, drying my eyes. I was not crying at anything in particular that I know of,
but somehow it made me cry to see old friends.
Growed, Master Davybore, and he growed, said Ham.
And he growed, said Mr. Pegaty.
Do you know how my mind is, Mr. Pegaty, I said, and how my dear, dear old Pegaty is?
On common, said Mr. Pegaty, and little Emily, and Mrs. Gummage, on common, said Mr. Pegaty.
There was a silence. Mr. Pegaty, to relieve it, took two prodigious lobsters and an enormous crab
and a large canvas bag of shrimps out of his pockets and piled him up in Ham's arms.
You say, said Mr. Pegaty, no one as you was partial to a little relish with your wells when you was
a long worse. We took the liberty. The old was a biode. She did. Mrs. Gummage, biode, yes, said Mr.
Pegaty slowly, who I thought appeared to stick to the subject on account of having no other subject
ready. Mrs. Gummage, I do assure you, she biode. I thanked him heartily and said, with a consciousness
of reddening, that I suppose little Emily was altered too, since we used to pick up shells and
pebbles on the beach. She's getting to be a woman. That's what she's getting to be, said Mr. Pegaty.
Ask him. He meant Ham, who beamed with delight and ascent over the bag of shrimps.
Her pretty face, said Mr. Pegaty, with his own shining like a light.
Her learning, said Ham. Her writing, said Mr. Pegaty. Why, it says, black as jet and so large
as you might see it anywhere. I dare say they would have said much more about her if they
had not been abashed by the unexpected coming in of Steerforth, who said, I didn't know you were here,
young Copperfield, and crossed by us on his way out. Don't go Steerforth, if you please. These
are two Yarmouth boatmen, very kind, good people, who are relations of my nurse, and have come from
graves in to see me. Aye aye, says Steerforth, returning. I'm glad to see them. How are you both?
There was an ease in his manner, a gay and light manner it was, but not swaggering,
which I still believe to have borne a kind of enchantment with it. I could not but see how
pleased they were with him, and how they seemed to open their hearts to him in a moment.
You must let them know at home, if you please, Mr. Pegaty, I said, that Mr. Steerforth is very
kind to me, and that I don't know what I should ever do here without him. Oh, nonsense, said Steerforth,
laughing. You mustn't tell them anything of the sort. And if Mr. Steerforth ever comes into Norfolk
or Suffolk, Mr. Pegaty, I said, while I am there, you may depend upon it. I shall bring him to Yarmouth
if he will let me to see your house. You never saw such a good house, Steerforth. It's made out of a
boat. Made out of a boat, is it? said Steerforth. That's the right sort of a house for such a
thorough-built boatman. So does sir, so does sir, said Ham grinning. You're right, young gentleman,
Mazer David brought, gentlemen's right, a thorough-built boatman. That's what he is, too.
Mr. Pegaty was no less pleased than his nephew. I'm pleased to you, sir, for you welcome me
in manner of me. I'm rough, sir, but I'm ready. At least, wise, I hope I'm ready. You understand?
My house, I'm watchful to say, sir. But it's hardly at your service, if ever you should come along
with Master David to see it. I wish you both well and I wish you happy. I well remember how the
distant idea of the holidays, after seeming for an immense time to be a stationary speck, began to
come towards us and to grow and grow. And from counting months, we came to weeks and then to
days. How the breaking-up day changed its place fast, at last, from the week after next to next
week, this week, the day after tomorrow, tomorrow, today, tonight, when I was inside the Yarmouth
Mail and going home.
Mr. Barkis, the carrier, was to call for me in the morning at nine o'clock.
I gave your message, Mr. Barkis. I wrote to Pegaty.
Ah, said Mr. Barkis.
Nothing come of that, he explained, looking at me sideways. No answer.
There was an answer expected, was there, Mr. Barkis, said I, opening my eyes. For this was a new light
to me. When a man says he's well in, said Mr. Barkis, it's as much as to say that a man's
waiting for an answer. Have you told us, sir, Mr. Barkis? No, no, growled Mr. Barkis,
reflecting about it. I ain't got no call to go and tell her so.
What would you like me to do it, Mr. Barkis, said I doubtfully.
You might tell her, if you would, said Mr. Barkis, with another slow look at me.
That Barkis was a waiting for an answer.
Says you, Pegaty, Barkis is waiting for an answer.
Say she perhaps answered to what? Says you, to what I told you. What is that?
Says she. Barkis is willing, says you.
God knows how infantile the memory may have been,
that was awakened within me by the sound of my mother's voice in the old parlour,
when I went softly into the room. She was sitting by the fire, suckling an infant,
whose tiny hand she held against her neck. I spoke to her and she started and cried
out. But seeing me, she called me her dear Davey, her own boy, and coming half across
the room to meet me, kneeled down upon the ground and kissed me and laid my head down
on her bosom near the little creature that was nestling there and put its hand to my lips.
He is your brother, said my mother fondling me. Davey, my pretty boy, my poor child.
Mr. and Miss Murdstrom had gone out upon a visit in the neighbourhood and would not return before
night. While we were at table, I thought it a favourable occasion to tell Pegaty about Mr. Barkis,
who before I had finished what I had to tell her began to laugh and throw her apron over her face.
Pegaty, said my mother, what's the matter?
Oh, draught the man! cried Pegaty. He wants to marry me!
It would be a very good match for you, wouldn't it? said my mother.
Oh, I don't know! said Pegaty. Don't ask me!
I remarked that my mother became more serious and thoughtful. I had seen at first that she was
changed. Her face was very pretty still, but it looked care-warm and too delicate,
and her hand was so thin and white that it seemed to me to be almost transparent.
At last she said, Pegaty, dear, you are not going to be married? Never! cried Pegaty.
Don't leave me, Pegaty. Stay with me. It will not be for long, perhaps.
What should I ever do without you?
May leave you my precious, cried Pegaty, not for all the world and his wife.
I felt uncomfortable about going down to breakfast in the morning,
as I had never set eyes on Mr. Murdston since the day when I committed my memorable offence.
He was standing before the fire with his back to it, while Miss Murdston made the tea.
He looked at me steadily as I entered, but made no sign of recognition, whatever.
I went up to him after a moment of confusion and said,
I beg your pardon, sir. I am very sorry for what I did, and I hope you will forgive me.
I am glad to hear you are sorry, David. He replied.
In the evening, sometimes, I went and sat with Pegaty in the kitchen.
There, I was comfortable and not afraid of being myself,
but neither of these resources was approved of in the parlor.
David, said Mr. Murdston, one day after dinner, when I was going to leave the room as usual,
I am sorry to observe that you are of a sullen disposition.
I beg your pardon, sir, I faulted. I have never meant to be sullen since I came back.
Don't take refuge in a lie, sir.
He returned. You have kept your own room when you ought to have been here.
You know now once for all that I require you to be here and not there.
You know me, David, I will have it done.
Thus the holidays lagged away. I was not sorry to go.
I was in the carrier's cart when I heard her calling to me.
I looked out and she stood at the garden gate alone,
holding her baby up in her arms for me to see.
It was cold, still weather, and not a hair of her head,
nor a fold of her dress was stirred as she looked intently at me, holding up her child.
So I lost her. So I saw her afterwards in my sleep at school,
a silent presence near my bed, looking at me with the same intent face.
Holding up her baby in her arms.
I pass over all that happened at school until the anniversary of my birthday came round in March.
It was after breakfast and we had been summoned in from the playground
when Mr Sharp entered and said, David Copperfield is to go into the parlour.
David Copperfield, said Mrs Crickle, leading me to a sofa and sitting down beside me.
I want to speak to you very particularly. I have something to tell you, my child,
when you came away from home at the end of the vacation, said Mrs Crickle after a pause,
was your mama well? I trembled, without distinctly knowing why, because, said she,
I grieve to tell you that I hear this morning your mamae is very dangerously ill.
I knew all now. She is dead. There was no need to tell me so. I had already broken out into a
desolate cry and felt an orphan in the wide world. I left Salem House upon the morrow afternoon.
I little thought then that I left it never to return.
If the funeral had been yesterday, I could not recollect it better.
We stand around the grave. The day seems different to me from every other day and the
light not of the same colour, of a sadder colour. Now there is a solemn hush which we
have brought from home with what is resting in the mould. And while we stand bare-headed,
I hear the voice of the clergyman, sounding remote in the open air and yet distinct and plain,
saying, I am the resurrection and the life, said the Lord.
She was never well, said Piggity, for a long time. She was uncertain in her mind and not happy.
When her baby was born, I thought at first she would get better, but she was more delicate and
sunk a little every day. On a last night in the evening she kissed me and said,
If my baby should die too, Piggity, please let them lay them in my arms and bury us together.
It was done for the poor alone live but a day beyond her.
Let my dearest boy go with us to our resting place, she said, and tell him that his mother,
when she lay her, blessed him not once, but a thousand times.
The first act of business, Ms. Murdston performed when the day of the solemnity was over
and light was freely admitted into the house, was to give Piggity a month's warning.
And what do you mean to do, Piggity, says I, wistfully.
I'm a-going, Davey, to my brother's first, for another fortnight's visit,
just till I've had time to look about me and get to be something like myself again.
Now, I've been thinking that perhaps as they don't want you here at present,
you might be let to go along with me.
Mr. Piggity and Ham waited for us at the old place.
They each took one of Piggity's trunks and we were going away
when Mr. Barkis solemnly made a sign to me with his forefinger to come under an archway.
I say, growled Mr. Barkis.
It was all right, you know who was willing, said my friend.
It was Barkis, and Barkis only.
I nodded ascent.
It's all right, said Mr. Barkis, shaking hands.
I'm a-friendly, Joran.
You made it all right first.
It's all right.
As we were going along, Piggity asked me what he had said,
but I told him he had said it was all right.
Like as impudence, said Piggity, but I don't mind that, Davey dear.
What should you think?
If I was to think of being married.
If you were to think of being married to Mr. Barkis, Piggity.
Yes, said Piggity.
I should think it would be a very good thing.
For then you know, Piggity, you would always have the horse and cart
to bring you over to see me, and could come for nothing and be sure of coming.
And so we were quite in a pleasant humour when we came within view of Mr. Piggity's cottage.
There was no little Emily to be seen,
so I asked Mr. Piggity where she was.
She's at school, sir, said Mr. Piggity.
She'll be home in from twenty minutes to half an hour's time.
I knew the way by which she would come,
and presently found myself strolling along the path to meet her.
A figure appeared in the distance before long,
and I soon knew it to be Emily,
who was a little creature still in stature, though she was grown.
She saw me well enough,
but instead of turning round and calling after me,
ran away, laughing.
This obliged me to run after her,
and she ran so fast that we were very near the cottage before I caught her.
Oh, it's you, is it? said little Emily.
I was going to kiss her,
but she covered her cherry lips with her hands and said she wasn't a baby now,
and ran away, laughing more than ever, into the house.
But she was tender-hearted too,
for when, as we sat round the fire after tea,
an illusion was made by Mr. Piggity over his pipe to the loss I had sustained,
the tears stood in her eyes,
and she looked at me so kindly across the table that I felt quite thankful to her.
And I was your friend, sir, said Mr. Piggity to me.
Steer forth, said I.
He was very well indeed when I came away, Mr. Piggity.
There's a friend, said Mr. Piggity, stretching out his pipe.
There's a friend if you talk of friends.
Why, Lord, love my art alive if it ain't a treat to look at him.
He is very handsome, is he not? said I, my heart, warming with his praise.
I was running on very fast indeed when my eyes rested on little Emily's face,
which was bent forward over the table,
listening with the deepest attention her breath held,
her blue eyes sparkling like jewels, and the colour mantling in her cheeks.
Emily is like me, said Piggity, and would like to see him.
At length, when the term of my visit was nearly expired,
it was given out that Piggity and Mr. Barkas were going to make a day's holiday together,
and that little Emily and I were to accompany them.
We were all a stir by times in the morning,
and while we were yet at breakfast, Mr. Barkas appeared in the distance,
driving a chaise cart towards the object of his affections.
Away we went on our holiday excursion, and the first thing we did was to stop at a church,
where Mr. Barkas tied the horse to some rails and went in with Piggity,
leaving little Emily and me alone in the chaise.
Mr. Barkas and Piggity were a good while in the church,
but came out at last, and then we drove away into the country.
As we were going along, Mr. Barkas turned to me and said with a wink,
What name was it as I wrote up in the cart?
Clara Piggity, I answered.
What name would it be as I should write up now, if there was a tilt here?
Clara Piggity again, I suggested.
Clara Piggity, Barkas, he returned, and burst into a roar of laughter that shook the chaise.
In a word, they were married, and had gone into the church for no other purpose.
I went home in the morning with Piggity and Mr. Barkas in the cart.
They left me at the gate, not easily or lightly, and it was a strange sight to me
to see the cart go on, taking Piggity away and leaving me under the old elm trees,
looking at the house, in which there was no face to look on mine with love or liking any more.
I now approach a period of my life which I can never lose the remembrance of
while I remember anything, and the recollection of which has often come before me like a ghost
and haunted happier times.
I had been out one day, loitering somewhere in the listless, meditative manner that my way of life
engendered. When turning the corner of a lane near our house, I came upon Mr. Murdston walking with a gentleman.
Mr. Quinnean lay at our house that night.
After breakfast, the next morning, I was going out of the room when Mr. Murdston called me back.
David, you have received some considerable education already. What is before you is a fight
with the world, and the sooner you begin it, the better. You have heard the counting house
mention sometimes.
The counting house, I repeated, of Murdston and Grinby in the wine trade, he replied.
I suppose I looked uncertain, for he went on hastily. Mr. Quinnean manages that business.
I glanced at the latter deferentially as he stood looking out of the window.
Mr. Quinnean suggests that it gives employment to some other boys and that he sees no reason
why it shouldn't, on the same terms, give employment to you. Those terms are that you
will earn enough for yourself to provide for your eating and drinking and pocket money.
Your lodging, which I have arranged for, will be paid by me.
So you are now going to London, David, with Mr. Quinnean, to begin the world on your own account.
Murdston and Grinby's warehouse was at the water side, down in Blackfriars.
It was a crazy old house with a wharf of its own, a butting on the water when the tide was in,
and on the mud when the tide was out, and literally overrun with rats.
Their trade was among a good many kinds of people, but an important branch of it was a supply of
wines and spirits to certain packet ships. The great many empty bottles were one of the consequences
of this traffic, and certain men and boys were employed to examine them against the light and
reject those that were flawed and to rinse and wash them. When the empty bottles ran short,
there were labels to be pasted on full ones, or corks to be fitted to them, or seals to be put
upon the corks, or finished bottles to be packed in casks. All this work was my work,
and of the boys employed upon it, I was one.
No words can express the secret agony of my soul, as I sunk into this companionship,
compared these henceforth everyday associates with those of my happier childhood,
not to say with steerforth-traddles and the rest of those boys,
and felt my hopes of growing up to be a learned and distinguished man crushed in my bosom.
The counting-house clock was at half past twelve, and there was general preparation for going to
dinner when Mr. Quinion tapped at the counting-house window and beckoned me to go in.
I found there a stoutish middle-aged person, with no more hair upon his head than there is upon an
egg, and with a very extensive face which he turned full upon me. His clothes were shabby,
but he had an imposing shirt collar on.
This is Mr. McCorber, said Mr. Quinion to me.
A hymn, said the stranger. That is my name.
Mr. McCorber, said Mr. Quinion, is known to Mr. Murdston. He takes orders for us on commission
when he can get any. He has been written to by Mr. Murdston on the subject of your lodgings,
and he will receive you as a lodger.
My address, said Mr. McCorber, is Windsor Terrace, City Road. I, in short, said Mr. McCorber, I live there.
Arrived at his house in Windsor Terrace, which I noticed was shabby like himself,
but also like himself made all the show it could, he presented me to Mrs. McCorber,
a thin and faded lady, not at all young, who was sitting in the parlour with a baby at her breast.
This baby was one of twins. There were two other children, Master McCorber, aged about four,
and Miss McCorber, aged about three.
I never thought, said Mrs. McCorber, when she came up to show me the apartment,
before I was married, when I lived with Papa and Mamar, that I should ever find it necessary
to take a lodger. But Mr. McCorber being in difficulties, all considerations of private
feeling must give way. I said, yes, ma'am. Mr. McCorber's difficulties are almost overwhelming,
just at present, said Mrs. McCorber, and whether it is possible to bring him through them, I don't know.
In this house, and with this family, I passed my leisure time.
My own exclusive breakfast of a penny loaf and a penny worth of milk I provided myself.
I was out at the warehouse all day, and from Monday morning until Saturday night I had no advice,
no counsel, no encouragement, no consolation, no assistance, no support of any kind from anyone.
I know I do not exaggerate, unconsciously and unintentionally, the scantiness of my resources
or the difficulties of my life. I know that I worked, from morning until night,
with common men and boys, a shabby child. I know that I lounged about the streets,
insufficiently and unsatisfactorily fed. I know that but for the mercy of God I might easily have
been, for any care that was taken of me, a little robber or a little vagabond.
Mr. McCorber's difficulties were in addition to the distressed state of my mind.
In my forlorn state I became quite attached to the family and used to walk about,
busy with Mrs. McCorber's calculations of ways and means and heavy with the weight of Mr. McCorber's
debts. At last Mr. McCorber's difficulties came to a crisis and he was arrested early one morning
and carried over to the King's Bench Prison in the borough. Mr. McCorber's affairs were very much
involved by reason of a certain deed of which I used to hear a great deal and which I suppose now
to have been some former composition with his creditors. At last this document appeared to be
got out of the way somehow and Mrs. McCorber informed me that her family had decided that
Mr. McCorber should apply for his release under the Insolvent Debtors Act which would set him free
she expected in about six weeks. In due time Mr. McCorber's petition was ripe for hearing
and that gentleman was ordered to be discharged under the act to my great joy.
Mrs. McCorber and I had a lamb's fry in private surrounded by the sleeping family.
May I ask mom what you and Mr. McCorber intend to do now that Mr. McCorber is out of his difficulties
and at liberty have you settled yet? My family said Mrs. McCorber are of opinion that with a
little interest something might be done for a man of his ability in the custom house. The influence
of my family being local it is their wish that Mr. McCorber should go down to Plymouth. And do you
go too mom? She shed tears as she replied. I never will desert Mr. McCorber. Mr. McCorber may have
concealed his difficulties from me in the first instance but his sanguine temper may have led him
to expect that he would overcome them. But I never will desert Mr. McCorber. No cried Mrs. McCorber
more affected than before. I never will do it. It's of no use asking me.

===== [2] [Charles Dickens]David Copperfield 2 of 4 =====
Through all the confusion and loneliness of spirits in which we had been so unexpectedly
to me involved, I plainly discerned that Mr. and Mrs. McCorber and their family really
were going away from London, and that a parting between us was near at hand.
I passed my evenings with Mr. and Mrs. McCorber during the remaining term of our residence
under the same roof, and I think we became fonder of one another as the time went on.
On the last Sunday they invited me to dinner, and we had a loin of pork and apple sauce
and a pudding.
My dear young friend, said Mr. McCorber, I am older than you, a man of some experience
in life and of some experience, in short, in difficulties, generally speaking, at present,
and until something turns up, which I am, I may say, hourly expecting, I have nothing
to bestow but advice.
Still, my advice is so far worth taking that, in short, that I have never taken it myself,
and am the here Mr. McCorber, who had been beaming and smiling all over his head and
face up to the present moment, checked himself and frowned.
The miserable wretch, you behold, my dear McCorber, urged his wife, I say, returned McCorber,
quite forgetting himself and smiling again, the miserable wretch you behold.
My advice is, never do, tomorrow, what you can do, today, procrastination is the thief
of time, calling him.
My other piece of advice, Copperfield, said Mr. McCorber, you know, annual income, twenty
pounds, annual expenditure, nineteen, nineteen, and six, result, happiness, annual income,
twenty pounds, annual expenditure, twenty pounds, ought, and six, result, misery.
The blossom is blighted, the leaf is withered, the God of day goes down upon the dreary scene,
and in short, you are forever flawed, as I am.
To make his example the more impressive, Mr. McCorber drank a glass of punch with an air
of great enjoyment and satisfaction, and whistled the college hornpipe.
I did not fail to assure him that I would store these precepts in my mind, though indeed
I had no need to do so, for at the time they affected me visibly.
Next morning I met the whole family at the coach office, and with a desolate heart, said
goodbye.
It was in my walk home that night, and in the sleepless hours which followed when I
lay in bed, that the thought first occurred to me, which afterwards shaped itself into
a settled resolution, to run away, to go, by some means or other, down into the country,
to the only relation I had in the world, and tell my story to my aunt, Miss Betsy.
As I did not even know where Miss Betsy lived, I wrote a long letter to Pegaty, and asked
her, incidentally, if she remembered.
In the course of that letter I told Pegaty that I had a particular occasion for half
a guinea, and that if she could lend me that sum until I could repay it, I should be very
much obliged to her, and would tell her afterwards what I had wanted it for.
Pegaty's answer soon arrived, and was as usual full of affectionate devotion.
She enclosed the half guinea, and was afraid she must have had a world of trouble to get
it out of Mr. Barker's box, and told me that Miss Betsy lived near Dover, but whether at
Dover itself, at Hythe, Sandgate, or Folkestone, she could not say.
Accordingly, when the Saturday night came, and we were all waiting in the warehouse to
be paid, and tip the carman, who always took precedence, went in first to draw his money,
I shook my companions by the hand, and ran away.
I came after many days' hard and miserable journeying upon the bare wide downs near Dover.
I reached that first great aim of my journey, and actually set foot in the town itself on
the sixth day of my flight.
I stood with my ragged shoes, and my dusty, sunburned, half-clothed figure, in the place
so long desired, helpless, and dispirited.
The morning had worn away in vain inquiries, when a fly-driver, coming by with his carriage,
dropped a horse-cloth.
Something good-natured in the man's face, as I handed it up, encouraged me to ask him
if he could tell me where Miss Trottwood lived, though I had asked the question so often that
it almost died upon my lips.
"'I'll tell you what,' said he, "'if you got there,' pointing with his whip towards
the heights, "'I'll keep right on till you cut to some houses,
face in the say.
I think you'll hear of her.'"
My shoes were by this time in a woeful condition.
My shirt and trousers might have frightened the birds from my aunt's garden as I stood
at the gate.
My hair had known no comb or brush since I left London.
My face, neck, and hands were burnt to a berry-brown.
From head to foot I was powdered almost as white with chalk and dust as if I had come
out of a line-kill.
In this plight I waited to introduce myself to, and make my first impression on, my full
middable aunt.
The unbroken stillness of the parlour window, leading me to infer after a while that she
was not there, I lifted up my eyes to the window above it, where I saw a florid, pleasant-looking
gentleman with a grey head, who shut up one eye in a grotesque manner, nodded his head
at me several times, shook it at me as often, laughed, and went away.
I was on the point of slinking off to think how I had best proceed.
When they came out of the house, a lady with a handkerchief tied over her cap, and a pair
of gardening gloves on her hands, wearing a gardening pocket like a toleman's apron
and carrying a great knife.
I knew her immediately to be Miss Betsy, for she came stalking out of the house exactly
as my poor mother had so often described her stalking up our garden at Blunderston Rookery.
Go away! said Miss Betsy, shaking her head and making a distant chop in the air with
her knife.
Go along, no boys here!
Without a scrap of courage, but with a great deal of desperation, I went softly in and
stood beside her, touching her with my finger.
If you please, ma'am, I began.
She started and looked up.
If you please, aunt, eh?
exclaimed Miss Betsy, in a tone of amazement I have never heard approached.
If you please, aunt, I am your nephew, David Copperfield.
Oh, Lord! said my aunt, and sat flat down in the garden path.
She sat on the gravel, staring at me until I began to cry.
When she got up in a great hurry, collared me and took me into the parlour where she
rang the bell.
Janet, said my aunt, when her servant came in, go upstairs, give my compliments to Mr.
Dick, and say I wish to speak to him.
The gentleman who had squinted at me from the upper window came in, laughing.
Mr. Dick, don't be a fool, because nobody can be more discreet than you can when you
choose.
We all know that.
So don't be a fool, whatever you are.
The gentleman was serious immediately.
Now, here you see young David Copperfield, who has run away, and the question I put to
you is, what shall I do with him?
Why, if I was you, said Mr. Dick, considering and looking vacantly at me, I should, I should
wash him.
Janet, said my aunt, turning round with a quiet triumph, which I did not then understand.
Mr. Dick sets us all right.
Hit the bath.
On going down in the morning, I found my aunt musing profoundly over the breakfast table.
Hello, said my aunt, after a long time.
I looked up and met her sharp, bright glance, respectfully.
I have written to him, said my aunt.
To your father-in-law, said my aunt.
I have sent him a letter that I will trouble him to attend to, or he and I will fall out,
I can tell him.
Does he know where I am, aunt?
I inquired, alarmed.
I have told him, said my aunt, with a nod.
Will I be given up to him?
I faltered.
I don't know, said my aunt.
We shall see.
Oh, I can't think what I shall do, I exclaimed, if I have to go back to Mr. Mertston.
I wish you'd go upstairs, said my aunt, as she threaded her needle, and give my compliments
to Mr. Dick, and I'll be glad to know how he gets on with his memorial.
I rose with all alacrity to acquit myself of this commission.
Huh, Phoebus, said Mr. Dick, laying down his pen.
How does the world go?
I'll tell you what, he added in a lower tone.
I shouldn't wish it to be mentioned, but it's a… here he beckoned to me, and put
his lips close to my ear.
It's a mad world, mad as bedlam boy, said Mr. Dick, taking snuff from a round box on
the table, and laughing heartily.
Without presuming to give my opinion on this question, I delivered my message.
Well, said Mr. Dick, in answer, my compliments to her, and I… I believe I have made a
start.
Said Mr. Dick, casting anything but a confident look at his manuscript.
Do you recollect the date? said Mr. Dick, looking earnestly at me, when King Trial's
the first had his head cut off.
I said I believed it happened in the year 1649.
Whim!
returned Mr. Dick, scratching his ear with his pen and looking dubiously at me.
So the books say, but I don't see how that can be, because, if it was so long ago, how
could the people about him have made that mistake of putting some of the trouble out
of his head, after it was taken off, into mine?
But no matter, no matter, he said cheerfully, and rousing himself, that's time enough.
My compliments to Mr. Trotwood, I am getting on very well indeed.
Well, child, said my aunt, when I went downstairs, and what of Mr. Dick this morning?
I informed her that he sent his compliments, and was getting on very well indeed.
What do you think of him? said my aunt.
Is he… is Mr. Dick… I ask because I don't know, aunt.
Is he at all out of his mind, then?
I stammered, for I felt I was on dangerous ground.
Not a morsel, said my aunt.
He has been called mad, and if it hadn't been for me, his own brother would have shut
him up for life.
So I stepped in, and made him an offer.
I said, your brother's sane, a great deal more sane than you are, or ever will be.
It is to be hoped.
Let him have his little income, and come and live with me.
I am not afraid of him.
I am not proud.
I am ready to take care of him, and shall not ill-treat him, as some people have done.
After a good deal of squabbling, said my aunt, I got him, and he has been her ever since.
He is the most friendly and amenable creature in existence, and as for advice, but nobody
knows what that man's mind is, except myself.
Did he say anything to you about King Charles, the first child?
Yes, aunt.
Ah!
Certainly aunt, rubbing her nose as if she were a little vexed.
That's his allegorical way of expressing it.
He connects his illness with great disturbance and agitation naturally, and that's the figure
which he chooses to use.
Why shouldn't he, if he thinks proper?
I said, certainly aunt.
Is it a memorial about his own history that he's writing aunt?
Yes, child.
The anxiety I underwent, in the interval which necessarily elapsed, before a reply could
be received to her letter to Mr. Murdston, was extreme.
But I made an endeavour to suppress it, and to be as agreeable as I could, in a quiet
way, both to my aunt and Mr. Dick.
At length the reply from Mr. Murdston came, and my aunt informed me, to my infinite terror,
that he was coming to speak to her herself on the next day.
Mr. and Miss Murdston, Julie, arrived, and my aunt began the interview with you, while
the Mr. Murdston, who married the widow of my late nephew, David Copperfield, of Blunderson
Rookery.
I am, said Mr. Murdston.
Mr. Murdston went on.
Miss Trotwood, on the receipt of your letter I resolved to answer it in person, however
inconvenient the journey.
This unhappy boy has been the occasion of much domestic trouble and uneasiness, both during
the lifetime of my late dear wife and since.
He has a solemn rebellion spirit, a violent temper, and an untoward intractable disposition.
Both my sister and myself have endeavored to correct his vices, but ineffectually.
Miss Trotwood, I am here to take David back, to take him back unconditionally, to dispose
of him as I think proper, and to deal with him as I think right.
Now I must caution you that if you abet him once, you abet him for good and all.
If you step in between him and me, now, you must step in Miss Trotwood forever.
I am here for the first and last time to take him away.
Is he ready to go?
If he is not, and you tell me he is not, my doors are shut against him henceforth, and
yours, I take it for granted, are open to him.
To this address my aunt had listened with the closest attention, sitting perfectly upright,
with her hands folded on one knee and looking grimly on the speaker.
And what does the boy say?
Said my aunt.
Are you ready to go, David?
I answered no, and entreated her not to let me go.
I said that neither Mr. nor Miss Murdston had ever liked me, or had ever been kind to
me.
That they had made my mamma who always loved me dearly unhappy about me, and that I knew
it well, and that Peggy knew it.
I said that I had been more miserable than I thought anybody could believe who only knew
how young I was, and I begged and prayed my aunt to befriend and protect me for my father's
sake.
At that she pulled me towards her and said to Mr. Murdston,
You can go when you like.
I'll take my chance with the boy.
If he's all you say he is, at least I can do as much for him then as you have done.
But I don't believe a word of it.
Mr. and Miss Murdston being gone, I was so far emboldened as to kiss and thank her, which
I did with great heartiness, and with both my arms clasped round her neck.
I then shook hands with Mr. Dick, who shook hands with me a great many times, and hailed
this happy close of the proceedings with repeated bursts of laughter.
You'll consider yourself guardian jointly with me of this child, Mr. Dick, said my aunt.
I shall be delighted, said Mr. Dick, to be the guardian of David's son.
Very good, returned my aunt.
That's settled.
I have been thinking, do you know, Mr. Dick, that I might call him Trotwood.
Yes, to be sure, yes, Trotwood Copperfield, said Mr. Dick.
Thus I began my new life in a new name, and with everything new about me.
My aunt took so kindly to me, that in the course of a few weeks she shortened my adopted
name of Trotwood into Trot.
Trot, said my aunt one evening, when the backgammon board was placed as usual for herself and
Mr. Dick, we must not forget your education.
Should you like to go to school at Canterbury?
I replied that I should like it very much, as it was so near her.
Good, said my aunt, should you like to go to-morrow?
In the morning my aunt, who was perfectly indifferent to public opinion, drove the great
pony through Dover in a masterly manner.
When we came into the country road she looked at me, down in a valley of cushion by her side,
and asked me whether I was happy.
Very happy indeed, thank you, aunt, I said.
She was much gratified, and both her hands being occupied patted me on the head with
her whip.
Is it a large school, aunt, I asked.
Why, I don't know, said my aunt.
We are going to Mr. Wickfield's first.
Does he keep a school, I asked.
No Trot, said my aunt.
He keeps an office.
At length we came to Canterbury, and stopped before a very old house bulging out over the
road.
A house with long, low, lattice windows bulging out still farther, and beams with carved heads
on the ends bulging out too, so that I fancied the whole house was leaning forward, trying
to see who was passing on the narrow pavement below.
When the pony shares stopped at the door, and my eyes were intent upon the house, I saw
a cadaverous face appear at a small window on the ground floor, and quickly disappear.
The low arched door then opened, and the face came out.
It belonged to a red-haired person, the youth of fifteen, as I take it now, but looking
much older, whose hair was cropped as close as the closest stubble, who had hardly any
eyebrows and no eyelashes, and eyes of a red-brown, so unsheltered and unshaded that
I remember wondering how he went to sleep.
"'Is Mr. Wickfield at home, Uriah Heep?' said my aunt.
"'Mr. Wickfield's at home, ma'am,' said Uriah Heep.
"'If you're pleased to walk in there,' pointing with his long hand to the room he
meant.
We got out, and leaving him to hold the pony, went into a long, low parlour looking towards
the street.
"'Miss Betsy Trotwood,' said the gentleman within, "'pray, enter.'
I was engaged for a moment, but you'll excuse my being busy.'
"'Well, Miss Trotwood,' said Mr. Wickfield, for I soon found that it was he, and that
he was a lawyer.
What wind blows you here?
Not an ill wind, I hope.'
"'No,' replied my aunt, "'this is my grand-nephew.
I have adopted him, and I have brought him here to put to a school where he may be thoroughly
well taught and well treated.
Now, tell me where that school is, and what it is, and all about it.'
"'At the best we have,' said Mr. Wickfield, considering, "'your nephew couldn't board
just now.
But he could board somewhere else, I suppose,' suggested my aunt.
Mr. Wickfield thought I could.
"'I'll tell you what you can do, Miss Trotwood.
What's that?' inquired my aunt.
"'Leave your nephew here for the present.
He's a quiet fellow.
He won't disturb me at all.
It's a capital house for study.
Leave him here.'
My aunt evidently liked the offer, though she was delicate of accepting it.
So did I.
"'You shall not be oppressed by the receipt of favours, Miss Trotwood.
You may pay for him, if you like.
We won't be hard about terms, but you shall pay, if you will.'
"'On that understanding,' said my aunt, "'I shall be very glad to leave him.'
"'Then come and see my little housekeeper,' said Mr. Wickfield.
"'We accordingly went up a wonderful old staircase, and into a shady old drawing-room,
surrounded by some three or four of the quaint windows I had looked up at from the street.'
Mr. Wickfield tapped at a door in a corner of the panelled wall, and a girl of about
my own age came quickly out and kissed him.
Although her face was quite bright and happy, there was a tranquillity about it, and about
her, a quiet, good, calm spirit, that I never have forgotten, that I shall never forget.
This was his little housekeeper, his daughter Agnes, Mr. Wickfield said.
She had a little basket trifle hanging at her side, with keys in it, and she looked
as staid and as discreet a housekeeper as the old house could have.
She listened to her father as he told her about me with a pleasant face, and when he
had concluded, proposed to my aunt that we should go upstairs and see my room, and a
glorious old room it was, with more oak beams and diamond panes.
My aunt was as happy as I was in the arrangement made for me, and we went down to the drawing
room again, well pleased and gratified.
Some lunch was provided for her there, and Agnes went back to her governess and Mr.
Wickfield to his office.
So we were left to take leave of one another without any restraint.
She told me that everything would be arranged for me by Mr. Wickfield, that I should want
for nothing, and gave me the kindest words and the best advice.
Never, said my aunt, be mean in anything, never be false, never be cruel, avoid those
three vices trot, and I can always be hopeful of you.
By five o'clock, which was Mr. Wickfield's dinner hour, I had mustered up my spirits
again and was ready for my knife and fork.
The cloth was only laid for us two, but Agnes was waiting in the drawing room before dinner,
went down with her father, and sat opposite to him at table.
I doubted whether he could have dined without her.
In the course of the evening I rambled down to the door, and a little way along the street
that I might have another peep at the old houses and the grey cathedral.
As I came back, I saw Uriah Heep shutting up the office, and feeling friendly towards
everybody, went in and spoke to him, and at parting gave him my hand.
But oh, what a clammy hand his was, as ghostly to the touch as to the sight.
I rubbed mine afterwards to warm it, and to rub his off.
Next morning after breakfast I entered on school life again.
I went, accompanied by Mr. Wickfield to the scene of my future studies, and was introduced
to my new master, Dr. Strong.
The schoolroom was a pretty large hall, on the quietest side of the house, and commanding
a peep of an old secluded garden belonging to the doctor, where the peaches were ripening
on the sunny south wall.
A new boy, young gentleman, said the doctor, trot wood Copperfield.
One Adams, who was the head boy, then stepped out of his place and welcomed me.
He was very affable and good-humoured, and he showed me my place and presented me to
the masters in a gentlemanly way that would have put me at my ease if anything could.
It seemed to me so long, however, since I had been among such boys, that I felt as strange
as ever I had done in my life.
I was so conscious of having passed through scenes of which they could have no knowledge,
and of having acquired experiences following to my age, appearance and condition as one
of them, that I half believed it was an imposture to come there as an ordinary little schoolboy.
This ran in my head so much, on that first day at Dr. Strong's, that I shrunk within
myself whensoever I was approached by one of my new school fellows, and hurried off the
minute school was over, afraid of committing myself in my response to any friendly notice
or advance.
But there was such an influence in Mr. Wickfield's old house, that when I knocked at it with
my new school books under my arm, I began to feel my uneasiness softening away.
When we had dined, we went upstairs again, where everything went on exactly as on the
previous day.
Agnes set the glasses and decanters in the same corner, and Mr. Wickfield sat down to
drink and drank a good deal.
Agnes played the piano to him, sat by him and worked and talked, and played some games
at Domino's with me.
In good time, she made tea, and afterwards, when I brought down my books, looked into
them, and showed me what she knew of them, and what was the best way to learn and understand
them.
The time having come for her withdrawal for the night, and she having left us, I gave
Mr. Wickfield my hand, preparatory to going away myself, but he checked me and said,
Should you like to stay with us, Trotwood, or to go elsewhere?
To stay, I answered quickly.
You're sure?
If you please, if I may.
Why, it's but a dull life that we lead here, boy, I'm afraid, a monotonous life, but I
must have her near me.
I must keep her near me.
Mechanically going through the action of pouring wine from the empty decanter, he set it down
and paced back again.
The length he aroused himself and looked about the room until his eyes encountered mine.
Stay with us, Trotwood, eh?
I'm glad of it.
Your company to us both.
Eh, eh, it's wholesome to have you here.
I'm sure it is for me, sir, I said.
I'm so glad to be here.
Seeing a light in the little round office, and immediately feeling myself attracted towards
Uriah Heep, who had a sort of fascination for me, I went in there and found Uriah reading
a great fat book.
You're waking late tonight, Uriah?
says I.
Yes, Master Copperfield, says Uriah.
I suppose you're quite a great lawyer, I said after looking at him for some time.
Me, Master Copperfield, said Uriah.
Oh, no.
I'm a very humble person.
I'm well aware that I am the humblest person going, let the other be where he may.
My mother is likewise a very humble person.
We live in a numble abode, Master Copperfield, but have much to be thankful for.
My father's former calling was humble.
He was a sexton.
What did he know?
I asked.
Is a partaker of glory at present, Master Copperfield, said Uriah Heep.
But we have so much to be thankful for.
How much have I to be thankful for in living with Mr. Wickfield?
I asked Uriah if he had been with Mr. Wickfield long.
I've been with him going on for a year, Master Copperfield, said Uriah, shutting up his book
after carefully marking the place where he had left off.
Then when your article time is over, you'll be a regular lawyer, I suppose, said I.
With the blessing of Providence, Master Copperfield returned Uriah.
Perhaps you'll be a partner in Mr. Wickfield's business one of these days.
I said to make myself agreeable, and it would be Wickfield and Heep, or Heep Lake to Wickfield.
Oh no, Master Copperfield returns Uriah, shaking his head.
I'm much too humble for that.
One Thursday morning, when I was about to walk with Mr. Dick from the hotel to the coach office,
before going back to school, for we had an hour's school before breakfast,
I met Uriah in the street, who reminded me of a promise I had made to take tea with himself and his mother,
adding with a wryth, but I didn't expect you to keep it, Master Copperfield, we're so very humble.
I said I would mention it to Mr. Wickfield, and if he approved, as I had no doubt he would, I would come with pleasure.
So, at six o'clock that evening, which was one of the early office evenings, I announced myself as ready to Uriah.
Mother will be proud indeed, he said as we walked away together, or she would be proud if it wasn't sinful, Master Copperfield.
We entered a low old fashioned room, walked straight into from the street, and found there Mrs. Heep, who was the dead image of Uriah, only short.
This is a day to be remembered, my Uriah, I am sure, said Mrs. Heep, making the tea.
When Master Copperfield pays us a visit.
I found that Mrs. Heep gradually got nearer to me, and that Uriah gradually got opposite to me,
and that they respectfully plied me with the choicest of the eatables on the table.
They did just what they liked with me, and wormed things out of me that I had no desire to tell, with a certainty I blushed to think of.
I had begun to be a little uncomfortable, and to wish myself well out of the visit, when a figure coming down the street past the door, came back again, looked in, and walked in, exclaiming loudly.
Copperfield, is it possible, my dear Copperfield, said Mr. McCorber, putting out his hand.
This is indeed a meeting which is calculated to impress the mind with a sense of the instability and uncertainty of all human.
In short, it is a most extraordinary meeting.
Copperfield, my dear fellow, how do you do?
I have discovered my friend Copperfield, said Mr. McCorber, gentilely, and without addressing himself particularly to anyone.
Not in solitude, but partaking of a social meal.
In short, said Mr. McCorber, in another of his births of confidence, I shall esteem it an honour to be presented.
I could do no less under these circumstances, than make Mr. McCorber known to Uriah Heep and his mother, which I accordingly did.
Shall we go and see Mrs. McCorber, sir? I said, to get Mr. McCorber away.
If you will do her that favour, Copperfield, replied Mr. McCorber, rising.
Mrs. McCorber was amazed, but very glad to see me.
I thought you were a plimus mum, I said to Mrs. McCorber, as Mr. McCorber went out.
My dear Master Copperfield, she replied, we went to Plymouth, but they would rather not have a man of Mr. McCorber's abilities.
Since then I have consulted other branches of my family on the course which it is most expedient for Mr. McCorber to take.
The opinion of those other branches of my family is that Mr. McCorber should immediately turn his attention to coals.
Mr. McCorber was induced to think on inquiry that there might be an opening for a man of his talent in the Medway Coal trade.
We have been here three days. Nothing has, as yet, turned up.
And it may not surprise you, my dear Master Copperfield, so much as it would be stranger to know that we are at present waiting for a remittance from London to discharge our pecuniary obligations at this hotel.
When I took my leave of them, they both pressed me so much to come and dine before they went away that I could not refuse.
As I was looking out of window that same evening, it surprised me and made me rather uneasy to see Mr. McCorber and Uriah Heap walk past arm in arm.
Uriah, humbly sensible of the honour that was done him, and Mr. McCorber taking a bland delight in extending his patronage to Uriah.
But I was still more surprised when I went to the little hotel next day at the appointed dinner hour, which was four o'clock, to find from what Mr. McCorber said that he had gone home with Uriah and had drunk brandy and water at Mrs. Heaps.
We had a beautiful little dinner. There was wine and there was strong ale, and after dinner Mrs. McCorber made us a bowl of hot punch with her own hands.
My school days, the silent gliding on of my existence, the unseen unfelt progress of my life, from childhood up to youth.
I'm doubtful whether I was at heart glad or sorry when my school days drew to an end and the time came for my leaving Dr. Strong's.
I had been very happy there. I had a great attachment for the doctor, and I was eminent and distinguished in that little world.
For these reasons I was sorry to go, but for other reasons unsubstantial enough I was glad.
Misty ideas of being a young man at my own disposal, of the importance attaching to a young man at his own disposal, of the wonderful things to be seen and done by that magnificent animal and the wonderful effects he could not fail to make upon society, lured me away.
My aunt and I held many grave deliberations on the calling to which I should be devoted.
For a year or more I had endeavored to find a satisfactory answer to an often repeated question, what I would like to be.
It has occurred to me, pursued my aunt one day, that a little change and a glimpse of life out of doors may be useful in helping you to know your own mind and form a cooler judgment.
Suppose you were to go down into the old part of the country again, for instance, and see that out of the way woman with the savagest of names, said my aunt, rubbing her nose for she could never thoroughly forgive Pegatee for being so called.
Of all things in the world, aunt, I should like it best.
That who may begin in a small way to have a reliance upon yourself and to act for yourself, said my aunt, I shall send you upon your trip alone.
I went to Canterbury first, that I might take leave of Agnes and Mr Wickfield, my old room in whose house I had not yet relinquished, and also of the good doctor.
Agnes was very glad to see me and told me that the house had not been like itself since I had left it.
Trotwood, there is something that I want to ask you, and that I may not have another opportunity of asking for a long time.
Perhaps something I would ask I think of no one else.
Have you observed any gradual alteration in papa?
I think, I think he does himself no good by the habit that has increased upon him since I first came here.
He is often very nervous, or I fancy so.
It is not fancy, said Agnes, shaking her head.
His hand trembles, his speech is not plain, and his eyes look wild.
I have remarked that at those times, and when he is least like himself, he is most certain to be wanted on some business.
By Uriah, said Agnes, yes.
And the sense of being unfit for it, or of not having understood it, or of having shown his condition in spite of himself seems to make him so uneasy,
that next day he is worse, and next day worse, and so he becomes jaded and haggard.
Her hand passed softly before my lips while I was yet speaking, and in the moment she had met her father at the door of the room,
and was hanging on his shoulder.
Morning brought with it my parting from the old house, which Agnes had filled with her influence.
I should be there again soon, no doubt.
I might sleep again, perhaps often, in my old room, but the days of my inhabiting there were gone, and the old time was passed.
I was heavier at heart when I took my seat upon the box of the London coach.
I went to the Golden Cross at Charing Cross, then a mouldy sort of establishment in a close neighbourhood.
Being in a pleasant frame of mind, I resolved to go to the play.
It was Covent Garden Theatre that I chose, and there, from the back of a centre box, I saw Julius Caesar and the new pantomime.
To have all those noble Romans alive before me, and walking in and out for my entertainment,
instead of being the stern taskmasters they had been at school, was a most novel and delightful effect.
Having returned to the hotel coffee-room, I was so filled with the play that I don't know when the figure of a handsome, well-formed young man,
dressed with a tasteful, easy negligence which I have reason to remember very well, became a real presence to me.
At last I rose to go to bed, much to the relief of the sleepy waiter.
And going towards the door, I passed the person who had come in and saw him plainly.
I turned directly, came back and looked again. He did not know me, but I knew him in a moment.
Steerforth, won't you speak to me? You don't remember me, I'm afraid, said I.
My God! he suddenly exclaimed. It's a little copper field.
I grasped him by both hands and could not let them go, but for very shame and the fear that it might displease him,
I could have held him round the neck and cried.
I never, never, never was so glad. My dear Steerforth, I'm so overjoyed to see you.
And I'm rejoiced to see you too, he said, shaking my hands heartily.
Why copper field, old boy, don't be overpowered. And yet he was glad too, I thought, to see how the delight I had in meeting him affected me.
Well, how do you come to be here? said Steerforth, clapping me on the shoulder.
I came here by the Canterbury coach today. I've been adopted by an aunt down in that part of the country
and have just finished my education there. How do you come to be here, Steerforth?
Well, I am what they call an Oxford man, he returned.
That is to say I get bored to death down there periodically, and I'm on my way now to my mother's.
Yes, I'm on an expedition of duty. My mother lives a little way out of town.
And the road's being in a beastly condition, and our house tedious enough, I remained here to-night instead of going on.
I've not been in town half a dozen hours, and those I've been dozing and grumbling away at the play.
Steerforth invited me to breakfast with him next morning at ten o'clock, an invitation I was only too proud and happy to accept.
It being now pretty late, we took our candles and went upstairs, where we parted with friendly heartiness at his door.
When the chambermaid tapped at my door at eight o'clock, and informed me that my shaving water was outside,
I felt severely the having no occasion for it, and blushed in my bed.
It was not in the coffee-room that I found Steerforth expecting me, but in a snug private apartment,
red-curtained and turkey-carpeted, where the fire burned bright, and a fine hot breakfast was set forth on a table covered with a clean cloth.
Now, Copperfield, said Steerforth, when we were alone, I should like to hear what you're doing, and where you're going, and all about you,
I feel as if you are my property.
Glowing with pleasure to find that he had still this interest in me, I told him how my aunt had proposed the little expedition that I had before me,
and wither it tended.
As you're in no hurry, then, said Steerforth, come home with me to Highgate, and stay a day or two.
You will be pleased with my mother. She's a little vain and prosy about me, but that you can forgive her, and she will be pleased with you.
The short winter day wore away so fast that it was dusk when the stagecoach stopped with us at an old brick-house at Highgate on the summit of the hill.
An elderly lady, though not very far advanced in years, with a proud carriage and a handsome face, was in the doorway as we alighted,
and greeting Steerforth as my dearest James folded him in her arms.
To this lady he presented me as his mother, and she gave me a stately welcome.
When I was called to dinner, I found a second lady in the dining room of a slight short figure, dark,
and not agreeable to look at, but with some appearance of good looks too, who attracted my attention.
She had black hair and eager black eyes, and was thin, and had a scar upon her lip.
It was an old scar which had once cut through her mouth, downwards towards the chin, but was now barely visible, except above and on her upper lip, the shape of which it had altered.
I concluded in my own mind that she was about thirty years of age, and that she wished to be married.
She was introduced as Miss Dartle, and both Steerforth and his mother called her Rosa.
I found that she lived there, and had been for a long time Mrs Steerforth's companion.
It appeared to me that she never said anything she wanted to say outright, but hinted it, and made a great deal more of it by this practice.
An instance happened before dinner was done.
Mrs Steerforth, speaking to me about my intention of going down into Suffolk, I said at hazard how glad I should be if Steerforth would only go there with me,
and explaining to him that I was going to see my old nurse and Mr Peckety's family, I reminded him of the boatman whom he had seen at school.
Oh, that bluff fellow, said Steerforth. He had a son with him, hadn't he?
No, that was his nephew, I replied, whom he adopted, though, as a son.
He has a very pretty little niece, too, whom he adopted as a daughter.
In short, his house, or rather his boat, where he lives in one on dry land, is full of people who are objects of his generosity and kindness.
You would be delighted to see that household. Should I? said Steerforth.
Well, I think I should. It would be worth the journey to see that sort of people together and to make one of them.
Miss Dartle, whose sparkling eyes had been watchful of us, now broke in again.
Oh, but really, do tell me, are they, though? she said.
Are they what? And are who what? said Steerforth.
That sort of people. Are they really animals and clots and beings of another order? I want to know so much.
Well, there's a pretty wide separation between them and us, said Steerforth, with indifference.
They're not to be expected to be as sensitive as we are. Their delicacy is not to be shocked or hurt easily.
Really? said Miss Dartle.
Well, I don't know now when I have been better pleased to hear that. It's so consoling.
It's such a delight to know that when they suffer, they don't feel.
Sometimes I have been quite uneasy for that sort of people, but now I shall just dismiss the idea of them altogether.
I believe that Steerforth had said what he had, in jest, or to draw Miss Dartle out,
and I expected him to say as much when she was gone, and we two were sitting before the fire.
But he merely asked me what I thought of her.
She is very clever, is she not? I asked.
Clever! She brings everything to a grindstone, said Steerforth,
and sharpens it as she has sharpened her own face and figure these years past.
She's worn herself away by constant sharpening. She's all edge.
What a remarkable scar that is upon her lip, I said. Steerforth's face fell, and he paused a moment.
Why, the fact is, he returned. I did that.
By an unfortunate accident. No.
I was a young boy, and she exasperated me, and I threw a hammer at her.
A promising young angel I must have been.
I was deeply sorry to have touched on such a painful theme, but that was useless now.
She's borne the mark ever since, as you see, said Steerforth,
and she'll bear it to her grave if she ever rests in one, though I can hardly believe she will ever rest anywhere.
She was the motherless child of a sort of cousin of my father's.
He died one day. My mother, who was in a widow, brought her here to be company to her.
She has a couple of thousand pounds of her own, and saves the interest of it every year to enter the principal.
Here's the history of Miss Rosa Duttle for you.
There was a servant in that house, a man who, I understood, was usually with Steerforth,
and had come into his service at the university, who was in appearance a pattern of respectability.
He was tasseturn, soft-footed, very quiet in his manner, deferential, observant, always at hand when wanted,
and never near when not wanted.
It would have been next to impossible to suspect him of anything wrong.
He was so thoroughly respectable.
His name was Littimer.
The week passed away in a most delightful manner.
Steerforth then made up his mind to go with me into the country, and the day arrived for our departure.
What I felt in returning so auspiciously to the old familiar places, I shall not endeavour to describe.
I went down by the mail.
Now what are you going to do? I asked Steerforth on my arrival.
You're going to see your nurse, I suppose?
Why yes, I said. I must see Pegaty first of all.
Well, replied Steerforth, looking at his watch, suppose I deliver you up to be cried over for a couple of hours.
Is that long enough? Tell me where to come to, and in two hours I'll produce myself in any state you please, sentimental or comical.
Here was Pegaty in the tiled kitchen, cooking dinner.
The moment I knocked at the door, she opened it.
Pegaty, I cried to her.
She cried, my darling boy, and we both burst into tears and were locked in one another's arms.
I prepared Pegaty for Steerforth's arrival, and it was not long before he came.
His easy spirited good humour, his genial manner, his handsome looks,
his natural gift of adapting himself to whomesoever he pleased,
and making direct, when he cared to do it, to the main point of interest in anybody's heart,
bound her to him wholly in five minutes.
He stayed there with me to dinner.
If I were to say, willingly, I should not half-express how readily and gaily,
he maintained all his delightful qualities to the last until we started fourth at eight o'clock for Mr Pegaty's boat.
This is a wild kind of place, Steerforth, is it not?
It doesn't well enough in the dark, he said.
The sea roars as if it were hungry for us.
Is that the boat where I see a light, yonder?
That's the boat, said I.
A murmur of voices had been audible on the outside,
and at the moment of our entrance, a clapping of hands,
which, latinoise, I was surprised to see, proceeded from the generally disconsolate Mrs Gummidge.
But Mrs Gummidge was not the only person there who was unusually excited.
Mr Pegaty, his face lighted up with uncommon satisfaction,
and, laughing with all his might, held his rough arms wide open,
as if for little Emily to run into them.
Ham, with a mixed expression in his face of admiration, exultation,
and a lumbering sort of bashfulness that sat upon him very well,
held little Emily by the hand as if he were presenting her to Mr Pegaty.
Little Emily herself, blushing and shy,
but delighted with Mr Pegaty's delight, as her joyous eyes expressed,
was stopped by our entrance, for she saw us first,
in the very act of springing from Ham to nestle in Mr Pegaty's embrace.
I was in the midst of the astonished family, face to face with Mr Pegaty,
and holding out my hand to him, when Ham shouted,
Master Davy, it's Master Davy!
In a moment we were all shaking hands with one another,
and asking one another how we did, and telling one another how glad we were to meet,
and all talking at once.
Why, that you two gentlemen, gentlemen groaned,
should come to this air-roof tonight, of all nights in my life, said Mr Pegaty.
It's such a thing has never happened before, I do rightly believe.
Emily, my darling, come here, come here, my little witch!
There's Master Davy's friend, my dear.
There's the gentleman as you've heard on Emily.
He comes to see you along with Master Davy,
on the brightest night of your uncle's life, as ever was or will be.
Go on to the other one, and erore to it!
As she ran into the little chamber where I used to sleep,
he looked round upon us quite hot and out of breath,
with his uncommon satisfaction.
This here little Emily of ours, said Mr Pegaty,
has been in our house, what I suppose.
I'm an ignorant man, but that's my belief.
No one but a little bright-eyed creature can be in house.
She ain't my child, I never had one, but I couldn't love her more.
You understand, I couldn't do it.
I quite understand, said Stefforth.
Mr Pegaty ruffled his hair again,
and went on with a hand upon each of his knees.
There was a certain person, as had known our Emily,
from the time when her father was grounded,
as had seen her constant, when a babby, when a young gal, when a woman,
not much of a person to look at, he weren't, said Mr Pegaty.
Some of them I own build, rough, a good deal of this sour ester in him,
weary salt, but on a sort of a chat with his art in the right place.
I thought I'd never seen Ham grin to anything,
like the extent to which he sat grinning at us now.
What does a Sir Blessed Tarpaulan go and do?
Said Mr Pegaty, with his face one high noon of enjoyment.
But he loses that hair out of his to our little Emily.
All of a sudden, one evening, as it might be tonight,
comes little Emily from her work and him with her.
There ain't so much in that, you'll say.
No, because he takes care, and I like a brother out of dark,
and indeed a foredark, and at all times.
But this Tarpaulan chap, he takes hold of her hand,
and he cries out to me, joyful.
Look here, this is to be my little wife.
And she says, half bold and half shy, and half a laugh, and half a cryin'.
Yes, Uncle, if you please, if I please, cried Mr Pegaty,
rolling his head in an ecstasy at the idea.
It took place this year, present hour, and here's the man, old Marrier.
Ham staggered, as well he might,
under the blow Mr Pegaty dealt him in his unbounded joy,
as a mark of confidence and friendship.
But feeling called upon to say something to us,
he said, with much faltering and great difficulty,
I say, oh no, I hear then you ask, Master Davy,
when you first come, when I thought what she'd grown up to be.
I see her grown up, gentlemen, like a flower.
I lay down my life for her, Master Davy.
There ain't a gentleman in all her land,
nor yet silent upon all the say that can love this lady more than I love her.
Though there's a many man who'd say better what he meant.
Emily, brought back into the company, said little all the evening.
But she looked and listened, and her face got animated, and she was charming.
Steerforth told a story of a dismal shipwreck,
which arose out of his talk with Mr Pegaty,
as if he saw it all before him,
and little Emily's eyes were fastened on him all the time, as if she saw it too.
As I remember it was almost midnight when we took our leave.
The most engaging little beauty, said Steerforth, taking my arm.
Well, it's a quaint place, and they're quaint company,
and it's quite a new sensation to mix with them.
How fortunate we are, too, I returned,
to have arrived to witness their happiness in that intended marriage.
I never saw people so happy.
Steerforth and I stayed for more than a fortnight in that part of the country.
We were very much together, I need not say,
but occasionally we were asunder for some hours at a time.
He was a good sailor, and I was but an indifferent one,
and when he went out boating with Mr Pegaty, which was a favourite amusement of his,
I generally remained ashore.
One dark evening, when I was later than usual,
I found him alone in Mr Pegaty's house, sitting before the fire.
And so, he said abruptly,
we abandon this buccaneer life tomorrow, do we?
So we agreed, I returned,
and our places by the coach had taken, you know.
Aye, there's no help for it, I suppose, said Steerforth.
You know I've bought a boat down here.
What an extraordinary fellow you are, Steerforth, I exclaimed.
When you may never care to come near the place again.
I don't know that, he returned.
I've taken a fancy to it.
At all events I've bought a boat that was for sale,
and Mr Pegaty will be master of it in my absence.
By now he had started us off to the inn for our dinner.
We shall see to the boat being fresh-named, and have a christened again.
By what name, I asked?
The little Emily.
But is he here, he said, looking before us,
where the original little Emily comes, and that fellow with a...
upon my soul he's a true knight, he never leaves her.
She withdrew her hand timidly from Ham's arm
as we stopped to speak to them,
and blushed as she gave it to Steerforth and to me.
When they passed on, after we had exchanged a few words,
she did not like to replace that hand,
but still appearing timid and constrained, walked by herself.
I thought all this very pretty and engaging,
and Steerforth seemed to think so too,
as we looked after them fading away in the light of a young moon.
Suddenly there passed us, evidently following them,
a young woman whose approach we had not observed,
but whose face I saw as she went by,
and thought I had a faint remembrance of.
She was lightly dressed, looked bold and haggard,
and flaunting, and poor.
That is a black shadow to be following the girl,
said Steerforth, standing still.
What does it mean?
He spoke in a low voice that sounded almost strange to me.
She must have it in her mind to beg of them, I think, said I.
He looked again over his shoulder,
and only seemed to forget her
when the light of fire and candle shone upon us
seated warm and merry at table.
I was surprised when I came to Mr Barker's house later that night
to find Ham walking up and down in front of it,
and still more surprised to learn from him
that little Emily was inside.
I naturally inquired why he was not there too
instead of pacing the streets by himself.
Why, you see, Master Davy, he rejoined in a hesitating manner.
Emily, she's talking to someone in ear.
It's a poor worm, Master Davy, said Ham,
as his trot underfoot by all the town,
up street and down street,
the mould of the church, shard on old,
any that the folks shrink away from war.
Did I see her tonight, Ham, on the sand after we met you?
Keep an eye on sight, said Ham.
It's like you did, Master Davy.
She's Martha Endell, two or three years older than Emily,
but was at the school with her.
Now, Emily couldn't speak to her at home,
so she writes in pencil on a bit of paper
and gives it to her out a window to bring here.
Show that, she says, to my aunt, Mrs Barker's,
and she'll set you down by your fire
for the love of me till uncle has gone out and night can come.
By and by she tells me what I tell you, Master Davy,
and asks me to bring her.
The door opened then,
and Pegaty appeared beckoning to Ham to come in.
I would have kept away, but she came after me,
in treating me to come in, too.
The girl, the same I had seen upon the sands,
was near the fire.
She was sitting on the ground
with her head and one arm lying on a chair.
Emily spoke first.
Martha once, she said to Ham,
to go to London.
Why, to London, returned Ham.
Better there than here, said a third voice aloud.
Martha's, though she did not move.
No one knows me there.
Everybody knows me here.
What would she do there, inquired Ham?
She would try to do well, said little Emily.
You don't know what she said to us, does he?
Do they, aunt?
Pegaty shook her head, compassionately.
I'll try, said Martha.
If you'll help me away,
I never can do worse than I've done here.
I may do better.
Oh, with a dreadful shiver,
take me out of the streets,
where the whole town knows me from a child.
As Emily held out her hand to Ham,
I saw him put in it a little canvas bag.
I saw you and Emily, I could hear him say.
I haven't known all the world that ain't you or my dear.
It ain't of no delight to me except for you.
The tears rose freshly in her eyes,
but she turned away and went to Martha.
I saw her stooping over her and putting money in her bosom.
Then Martha arose and gathering her shawl about her,
covering her face with it and weeping aloud,
went slowly to the door.
As the door closed,
little Emily looked at us three in a hurried manner
and then hid her face in her hands and felt her sobbing.
Oh, Ham! she exclaimed, still weeping pitifully.
I'm not so good a girl as I ought to be.
I know I have not the thankful heart sometimes I ought to have.
And still she cried as if her heart would break.
While we were at breakfast,
a letter was delivered to me from my aunt.
As it contained matter on which I thought Steerforth
could advise me as well as anyone,
and on which I knew I should be delighted to consult him,
I resolved to make it a subject of discussion on our journey home.
For some little time we held no conversation.
Find a voice, David.
What about that letter you were speaking of at breakfast?
Oh! said I, taking it out of my pocket.
It's from my aunt.
She reminds me that I came out on this expedition
to look about me and to think a little.
What says our aunt on the subject?
Inquired Steerforth glancing at the letter in my hand.
She asked me here if I think I should like to be a proctor.
What do you think of it?
Well, I don't know, replied Steerforth coolly.
We may as well do that as anything else, I suppose.
What is a proctor, Steerforth, said I.
And why is a sort of monkish attorney, replied Steerforth?
I can tell you best what he is
by telling you what Doctor's Commons is.
It's a little out of the way place
where they administer what is called ecclesiastical law
and play all kinds of tricks with obsolete old monsters of acts of parliament
which three-fourths of the world know nothing about
and the other four supposed to have been dug up in a fossil state
in the days of the Headwoods.
It's a place that has an ancient monopoly in suits about people's wills
and people's marriages and disputes among ships and boats.
They plume themselves on their gentility there,
I can tell you if that's any satisfaction.
David, my advice is that you take kindly to Doctor's Commons.
I quite made up my mind to do so.
I then told Steerforth that my aunt was in town awaiting me
and that she'd taken lodgings for a week
at a kind of private hotel in Lincoln's infields.
When we came to our journey's end, Steerforth went home
engaging to call upon me next day at one
and I drove to Lincoln's infields
when I found my aunt up and waiting supper.
If I had been round the world since we parted,
we could hardly have been better pleased to meet again.
Well, Trot, she began,
what do you think of the proctor plan?
Or have you not begun to think about it yet?
I like it very much indeed. I like it exceedingly.
Come, said my aunt, that's cheering.
I have only one difficulty, aunt.
I want to ask whether my entrance into it would not be very expensive.
It will cost, returned my aunt,
to article you just a thousand pounds.
You have ever been a credit to me and a pride and a pleasure.
I have no other claim upon my means
and you are my adopted child.
Next day we set out for the office
of Mrs. Spenlow and Jorkins in Drs. Commons,
which was approached by a little low archway.
Hasty footsteps were heard in the room outside
and Mr. Spenlow in a black gown
trimmed with white fur came hurrying in.
He was a little light-haired gentleman
with undeniable boots
and the stiffest of white cravats and shirt collars.
He was got up with such care and was so stiff
that he could hardly bend himself.
And so, Mr. Copperfield,
you think of entering into our profession?
I bowed my acknowledgements and said
my aunt had mentioned to me that there was an opening
and that I believed I should like it very much.
It was settled that I should begin my month's probation
as soon as I pleased.
Very well satisfied with the dreamy nature of this retreat,
I informed Mr. Spenlow that I had seen enough for that time
and we rejoined my aunt,
in company with whom I presently departed from the Commons.
We had another long talk about my plans
when we were safely housed
and I urged her not to be uncomfortable on my account
but to leave me to take care of myself.
Well, she returned.
There is a furnished little set of chambers
to be let in the Adelfi Trot,
which ought to suit you to a marvel.
The chambers were on the top of the house
and consisted of a little half-blind entry
where you could see hardly anything,
a little stone-blind pantry where you could see nothing at all,
a sitting-room and a bedroom.
The furniture was rather faded
but quite good enough for me
and the river was outside the windows.
As I was delighted with the place,
my aunt and Mrs. Krupp, the landlady,
withdrew into the pantry to discuss the terms
while I remained on the sitting-room sofa,
hardly daring to think it possible
that I could be destined to live in such a noble residence.
After a single combat of some duration,
they returned and I saw to my joy
both in Mrs. Krupp's countenance
and in my aunt's that the deed was done.
MUSIC
I was going out of my door one morning
when I saw a ticket-porter coming upstairs
with a letter in his hand.
It read,
My dear Trotwood,
I am staying at the house of Papa's agent,
Mr. Waterbrook, in Ely Place, Hoban.
Will you come and see me today
at any time you like to appoint,
ever yours affectionately, Agnes?
I was shown into a pretty but rather close drawing-room
and there sat Agnes netting a purse,
looking so quiet and good
and reminding me so strongly
of my old school days at Canterbury.
After we had talked of that
for a while, she asked me quite suddenly
if I had seen Uriah.
Uriah Heep, said I.
No, is he in London?
He comes to the office downstairs every day,
returned Agnes.
I am afraid on
disagreeable business, Trotwood.
I believe he is going to enter
into partnership with Papa.
What? Uriah?
That mean-fawning fellow
whirled himself into such promotion,
I cried indignantly.
Uriah, she replied,
has made himself indispensable to Papa.
He is subtle and watchful.
He has mastered Papa's weaknesses,
fostered them and taken advantage of them
until Papa is afraid of him.
We are not likely to remain alone
much longer, said Agnes.
And while I have an opportunity,
let me earnestly entreat you, Trotwood,
to be friendly to Uriah.
Don't repel him.
There is no time to say more.
For the room, door opened
and Mrs. Waterbrook came sailing in.
Mrs. Waterbrook inquired firstly
if I went much into the parks
and secondly if I went much into society.
On my replying
to both these questions in the negative,
it occurred to me that I fell in her good opinion,
but she concealed the fact gracefully
and invited me to dinner next day.
I accepted the invitation
and took my leave.
When I went to dinner next day,
I found Uriah Heep among the company
in a suit of black
and in deep humility.
There were other guests,
but there was one who attracted my attention
before he came in,
on account of my hearing him announced
as Mr. Traddles.
My mind flew back to Salem House
and could it be Tommy,
I thought?
I looked for Mr. Traddles
with unusual interest.
He was a sober,
steady looking young man of retiring manners
with a comic head of hair
and eyes that were rather wide open
and he got into an obscure corner
so soon that I had some difficulty
in making him out.
Traddles and I were separated at table,
being billeted in two remote corners.
The dinner was very long
and the conversation extremely dull.
Later,
I was very glad indeed
to get upstairs to Agnes
and to talk with her in a corner
and to introduce Traddles to her
who was shy but agreeable
and the same good-natured creature still.
As he was obliged to leave early
on account of going away next morning for a month,
I had not nearly so much conversation
with him as I could have wished,
but we exchanged addresses
and promised ourselves the pleasure of another meeting
when he should come back to town.
When I left,
it was in no disposition
of the Ryer's company
but in remembrance of the entreaty Agnes had made to me
that I asked him if he would come home
to my rooms and have some coffee.
Oh, really, Master Copperfield!
he rejoined.
I beg your pardon, Mr. Copperfield,
but the other comes so natural
I don't like that you should put a constraint upon yourself
to ask a humble person like me
to your house.
He sat on my sofa
and told me he was drawn up under his coffee cup.
You have heard something,
I dare say,
of a change in my expectations,
Master Copperfield.
I should say,
Mr. Copperfield
observed your Ryer.
Yes, said I,
something.
Ah, you will not think the worst
of my humbleness
if I make a little confidence to you,
Master Copperfield,
will you?
Oh, no! said I
with an effort.
Thank you!
He took out his pocket handkerchief
and began wiping the palms of his hands.
Humble as I am,
humble as my mother is
and lowly
as a poor but honest
roof has ever been,
the image of Miss Agnes has been
abreast for years.
Oh,
Master Copperfield,
with what a pure affection do I
love the ground my Agnes
walks on.
I believe I had a delirious idea
of seizing the red-hot poker out of the fire
and running him through with it.
At length
I asked him with a better appearance
of composure than I could have thought possible
a minute before, whether he had made
his feelings known to Agnes.
Oh, no!
Master Copperfield!
He returned.
Oh, dear, no!
Not to anyone but you.
You see, I'm only just emerging from my
lowly station.
I rest a good deal of hope on her
observing how useful
I am to her father
and how I smooth the way
for him and keep him straight.
She's so much attached to her
father and Master Copperfield.
Oh, what a lovely thing it is
in a daughter, and I think she may
come on his
account to be kind
to me.
The days and weeks
slipped away.
I was artichalled to Spenlow
and Jorkins. I had
£90 a year exclusive
of my house rent and sundry collateral
matters from my aunt.
On the day when I was
artichalled, no festivity
took place beyond my having sandwiches
and sherry into the office for the clerks.
Mr. Spenlow remarked
on this occasion when we concluded our business
that he should have been happy to have seen
me at his house at Norwood to celebrate
our becoming connected, but for
his domestic arrangements being in some
disorder on account of the expected return
of his daughter from finishing her education
at Paris. But he intimated
that when she came home
he should hope to have the pleasure of entertaining
me.
Mr. Spenlow was as good as his word.
In a week or two he said
that if I would do him the favour to come down the next
Saturday and stay till Monday he would be extremely
happy.
We were very pleasant going down
and Mr. Spenlow gave me some hints
in reference to my profession.
He said it was the gentlest profession in the world
and must on no account be confounded
with the profession of a solicitor.
Being quite another sort of thing,
infinitely more exclusive, less
mechanical and more profitable.
We went into the house which was
cheerfully lighted up and into a hall
where there were all sorts of hats, caps,
great coats, plaids, gloves,
whips and walking sticks.
Where is Miss Dora?
said Mr. Spenlow to the servant.
Dora,
I thought.
What a beautiful name.
We turned into a room near at hand
and I heard a voice
say Mr. Copperfield,
my daughter Dora and my daughter Dora's
confidential friend.
It was no doubt Mr. Spenlow's voice
but I didn't know it
and I didn't care whose it was.
All was over in a moment.
I had fulfilled my destiny.
I was a captive and a slave.
I loved Dora Spenlow
to distraction.
I
observed a well-remembered voice
when I had bowed and murmured something.
Have seen Mr. Copperfield before.
The speaker was not Dora.
No.
The confidential friend
Miss Murdston.
I don't think I was much astonished
to the best of my judgment
no capacity of astonishment was left in me.
I said
how do you do Miss Murdston?
I hope you are well.
She answered
very well.
I said how is Mr. Murdston?
My brother is robust. I am obliged to you.
Mr. Spenlow
who I suppose had been surprised
to see us recognize each other
then put in his word.
Miss Murdston has had the goodness
said Mr. Spenlow to me
to accept the office of my daughter Dora's
confidential friend.
My daughter Dora having unhappily.
No mother.
I don't remember who was at dinner
except Dora.
I have not the least idea
what we had for dinner besides Dora.
My impression is
that I dined off Dora
entirely and sent away half a dozen plates
untouched.
I sat next to her. I talked to her.
She had the most delightful little voice
the gayest little laugh
the pleasantest and most fascinating little ways
that ever led a lost youth
into hopeless slavery.
When we went into the drawing room
David Copperfield
said Miss Murdston
beckoning me aside into a window.
A word.
I confronted Miss Murdston alone.
David Copperfield
I shall not attempt to disguise the fact
that I formed an unfavorable
opinion of you in your childhood
and as the chances of life have brought us together again
and may bring us together on other occasions
I would say let us meet here
as distant acquaintances.
Do you approve of this?
Miss Murdston
I returned.
I think you and Mr. Murdston
used me very cruelly
and treated my mother with great unkindness
but I quite agree in what you propose.
Miss Murdston shut her eyes again
and bent her head.
All I know of the rest of the evening
is that I was lost
in blissful delirium
and that I retired to bed in a most
maudlin state of mind
and got up in a crisis of
feeble infatuation.

===== [3] [Charles Dickens]David Copperfield 3 of 4 =====
It was a fine morning and early, and I thought I would go and take a stroll down in the garden and indulge my passion by dwelling on her image.
On my way through the hall, I encountered her little dog, who was called Jip, short for Gypsy.
I approached him tenderly, for I loved even him.
But he showed his whole set of teeth, got under a chair, expressly to snarl, and wouldn't hear of the least familiarity.
I had not been walking long, when I turned a corner, and met her.
You are out early, Miss Benlow? said I.
It's so stupid at home, she replied, and Miss Murdston is so absurd. Besides, it's the brightest time of the whole day, don't you think so?
I hazarded a bold flight and said, not without stammering, that it was very bright to me then, though it had been very dark to me a minute before.
Do you mean a compliment, said Dora, or that the weather has really changed?
I never saw such curls, how could I, for there never were such curls, as though she shook out to hide her blushes.
You are not very intimate with Miss Murdston, are you? said Dora.
No, I replied, not at all so.
She's a tiresome creature, said Dora, pouting. I can't think what Papark had been about when he chose such a vexatious thing to be my companion.
Miss Murdston had been looking for us. She found us by the greenhouse, took Dora's arm in hers, and marched us into breakfast, as if it were a soldier's funeral.
It came into my head one day to go and look after Traddles, who lived in a little street near the veterinary college at Camden Town.
Traddles was delighted to see me and gave me welcome with great heartiness to his little room.
It was in the front of the house, and extremely neat, though sparely furnished.
You are reading for the bar, Mr. Waterbrook informed me, said I.
Why, yes, said Traddles, I am reading for the bar. In fact, yes, I have just begun to keep my terms after rather a long delay.
It's sometimes as I was article, but the payment of that hundred pounds was a great pull.
A great pull, said Traddles, with a wince, as if he had had a tooth out.
Now, Copperfield, said he with a change of tone.
You are so exactly what he used to be, with that agreeable face, and it's so pleasant to see you that I shan't conceal anything.
Therefore, you must know that I am engaged, engaged.
Oh, Dora, she's a curate's daughter, said Traddles, one of ten down in Devonshire.
She's such a dear girl, said Traddles, a little older than me, but dearest girl.
I've been down there, I walked there, I walked back, and I had the most delightful time.
I dare say ours is likely to be a rather long engagement, but our motto is wait and hope.
In the meantime, I get on as well as I can. I don't make much, but I don't spend much.
In general, I board with the people downstairs, who are very agreeable people indeed.
Both Mr. and Mrs. McCorber have seen a good deal of life in her excellent company.
My dear Traddles, I quickly exclaimed, what are you talking about?
Traddles looked at me as if he wondered what I was talking about.
Mr. and Mrs. McCorber, I repeated, I am intimately acquainted with them.
I begged Traddles to ask his landlord to walk up.
Traddles accordingly did so over the banister, and Mr. McCorber, not a bit changed,
came into the room with a gentile and youthful air, cried,
Is it possible, have I the pleasure of again be held in Copperfield,
and shook me by both hands with the utmost fervour?
God-heaven, Mr. Traddles, said Mr. McCorber, to think that I should find you acquainted with a friend of my youth,
the companion of earlier days.
My dear, calling over the banisters to Mrs. McCorber,
while Traddles looked not a little amazed at this description of me,
here is a gentleman in Mr. Traddles' apartment whom he wishes to have the pleasure of presenting to you, my love.
I told Traddles and Mr. and Mrs. McCorber that before I could think of leaving,
they must appoint a day when they would come and dine with me.
An appointment was made for the purpose that suited us all, and I took my leave.
At the appointed time, my three visitors arrived together.
Mr. McCorber, with more shirt-collar than usual, had a new ribbon to his eyeglass,
Mrs. McCorber, with her cap in a whitey-brown paper parcel,
Traddles carrying the parcel and supporting Mrs. McCorber on his arm.
They were all delighted with my residence.
I informed Mr. McCorber that I relied upon him for a bowl of punch and led him to the lemons.
I never saw a man so thoroughly enjoy himself amid the fragrance of lemon-peel and sugar,
the odour of burning rum and the steam of boiling water, as Mr. McCorber did that afternoon.
It was between ten and eleven o'clock when Mrs. McCorber rose to replace her cap in the whitey-brown paper parcel
and to put on her bonnet.
I also took the opportunity of my holding a candle over the banisters to light them down
when Mr. McCorber was going first, leading Mrs. McCorber and Traddles was following with the cap
to detain Traddles for a moment on the top of the stairs.
Traddles, said I.
Mr. McCorber don't mean any harm, poor fellow, but if I were you, I wouldn't lend him anything.
My dear Copperfield, returned Traddles smiling, I haven't got anything to lend.
I returned to my fireside and was musing half gravely and half laughing on the character of Mr. McCorber
and the old relations between us when I heard a quick step ascending the stairs.
As the step approached I knew it and felt my heart beat high and the blood rushed to my face, for it was steer-forths.
My Daisy, old boy, dumbfounded, laughed steer-forths, shaking my hand heartily.
Have I detected you in another feast, you Sibirite? How are you, my Bacchanal?
I'm very well, said I, and not at all Bacchanalian tonight, though I confess to a party of three.
My Daisy hissed up for a king, he exclaimed, taking his seat at the table.
I shall do it justice, for I've come from Yarmouth.
I thought you came from Oxford, I returned.
Not I, said steer-forth, I've been seafaring, better employed.
Have you been there long? Nope, he returned, an escapade of a week or so.
And how are they all? Of course little Emily is not married yet.
Not yet, going to be, I believe, in so many weeks or months or something or other.
I've not seen much of him. By the by, he laid down his knife and fork and began feeling in his pockets.
I have a letter for you. From whom? Why from your old nurse?
He returned, taking some papers out of his breast pocket.
Oh, watch his names in a bad way, and it's about that, I believe.
Barkist, do you mean? Yes. It's all over with poor Barkist, I'm afraid.
The letter was from Pegatee. It informed me of her husband's hopeless state.
Said nothing of her weariness and watching, and praised him highly.
I tell you what, steer-forth, I think I will go down and see my old nurse.
She will take it so kindly that it will be a comfort and support to her.
It is no great effort to make, I'm sure, for such a friend as she has been to me.
I got down to Yarmouth in the evening.
My low tap at the door was answered by Mr. Pegatee.
I shook hands with him and passed into the kitchen while he softly closed the door.
Little Emily was sitting by the fire with her hands before her face, ham standing near her.
Now I'm going upstairs to tell my sister's master Davey's ear, and I'll cheer her up a bit, said Mr. Pegatee.
When Pegatee came down she took me in her arms and blessed and flanked me over and over again
for being such a comfort to her in her distress.
She then entreated me to come upstairs, sobbing that Mr. Barkis had always liked me and admired me,
and that she believed in case of his coming to himself again he would brighten up at sight of me
if he could brighten up at any earthly thing.
These have gone out with the tide, said Mr. Pegatee to me behind his hand.
Paint will can't die along the coast, said Mr. Pegatee.
Except when the tide's pretty nigh out.
They can't be born unless it's pretty nigh in, not properly born till flood.
These are going out with the tide.
It's ebb at half out of three, slap water half an hour.
If he lives till it turns he'll hold his own till past the flood and go out with the next tide.
We remained there watching him a long time, hours.
When at last he began to wonder feebly, it is certain he was muttering about driving me to school.
Barkis, my dear, said Pegatee.
Sleepy Barkis, he cried faintly.
No better woman anywhere.
Look, it is Master Davy, said Pegatee, for he now opened his eyes.
I was on the point of asking him if he knew me when he tried to stretch out his arm
and said to me distinctly with a pleasant smile,
Barkis is well in.
And it being low water, he went out with the tide.
It was not difficult for me on Pegatee's solicitation to resolve to stay where I was
until after the remains of the poor carrier should have made their last journey to Blunderstone.
Mr. Barkis had hoarded all these years I found to good purpose.
His property and money amounted to nearly three thousand pounds.
Of this he bequeathed the interest of one thousand to Mr. Pegatee for his life.
On his decease, the principle to be equally divided between Pegatee, little Emily and me,
or the survivor or survivors of us, share and share alike.
All the rest he died possessed of, he bequeathed to Pegatee,
whom he left residuary, legatee, and sole executrix of that his last will and testament.
In making an account for Pegatee, of all the property into which he had come,
in arranging all the affairs in an orderly manner,
being her referee and adviser on every point to our joint delight,
I passed the week before the funeral.
I did not see little Emily in that interval,
but they told me she was to be quietly married in a fortnight.
My old nurse was to go to London with me next day on the business of the will.
We were all to meet in the old boathouse that night.
Ham would bring Emily at the usual hour.
I would walk back at my leisure.
The brother and sister would return as they had come
and be expecting us when the day closed in at the fireside.
Rain was falling heavily by the evening and had proved a wild night.
I was soon within sight of Mr. Pegatee's house
and of the light within it shining through the window.
Mr. Pegatee had smoked his evening pipe
and there were preparations for some supper by and by.
The fire was bright, the ashes were thrown up,
the locker was ready for little Emily in her old place.
In her own old place sat Pegatee once more,
looking as if she had never left it.
You're a first of the lot, Master Davy,
said Mr. Pegatee with a happy face.
Sit ye down, sir, it ain't no use saying welcome to you,
but you're a welcome, kind and arty.
He glanced at the Dutch clock, rose, lit the candle and put it in the window.
There, said Mr. Pegatee cheerily,
lighted it up according to custom.
Are you ever wondering what that's for, sir?
Well, it's for our little Emily.
You see, the path ain't over light or cheerful out of dark
and when I'm here at the hour, as she's a common home,
I put some light in the window and if it ain't her, I come in now.
But it was only ham.
The night must have turned more wet since I came in,
for he had a large, sour-westered hat on slouched over his face.
Where's Emily? said Mr. Pegatee.
Ham made a motion with his head as if he were outside.
Master Davy, will you come out a minute
and see what Emily and me has got to show you?
We went out.
As I passed him at the door,
I saw to my astonishment and fright
that he was deadly pale.
He pushed me hastily into the open air
and closed the door upon us.
Ham, what's the matter?
Master Davy?
Oh, for his broken heart, how dreadfully he wept.
I was paralysed by the sight of such grief.
I could only look at him.
Ham!
Poor good fellow, for heaven's sake, tell me what's the matter?
My love, Master Davy,
the pride and hope of my heart,
or that I'd have died for him would die for now.
She's gone.
Gone?
Emily's run away.
Oh, Master Davy, think.
Ow, she's run away.
When I pray my good and gracious God to kill her,
or that it's so dear above all things,
sooner than let her come to ruin and disgrace,
what am I to say indoors?
How am I ever to break it to him, Master Davy?
I saw the door move,
and instinctively tried to hold the latch on the outside
to gain a moment's time.
It was too late.
Mr. Pegaty thrust forth his face,
and never could I forget the change that came upon it when he saw us,
if I were to live five hundred years.
I remember a great wail and cry,
and the women hanging about him,
and we all standing in the room,
I with a paper in my hand which Ham had given me.
Mr. Pegaty with his vest torn open,
his face and lips quite white,
and blood trickling down his bosom,
it had sprung from his mouth, I think,
looking fixedly at me.
Read it, sir.
He said in low shivering voice.
Slow.
Please.
I don't know where I can understand.
In the midst of the silence of death,
I read thus from a blotted letter.
When you who love me so much better than I ever have deserved,
even when my mind was innocent,
see this, I shall be far away.
I shall be far away.
He repeated slowly.
Stop.
Emily,
far away.
Well,
when I leave my dear home,
my dear home,
oh, my dear home,
in the morning,
the letterboard date on the previous night,
it will be never to come back
unless he brings me back a lady.
This will be found at night many hours after instead of me.
Oh, if you knew how my heart is torn,
if even you that I have wronged so much
that never can forgive me,
could only know what I suffer.
I am too wicked to write about myself,
oh, for mercy's sake,
tell uncle that I never loved him half so dear as now.
Oh, don't remember how affectionate and kind
you have all been to me.
Don't remember we were ever to be married,
but try to think as if I died
when I was little and was buried somewhere.
Be his comfort.
Love some good girl that will be
what I was once to uncle,
and be true to you and worthy of you,
and know no shame but me.
My parting love to uncle,
that was all.
He stood long after I had ceased to read,
still looking at me.
Slowly, at last, he moved his eyes from my face
as if he were waking from a vision
and cast them round the room.
Then he said in a low voice,
who's the man?
I want to know his name.
Ham glanced at me,
and suddenly I felt a shock that struck me back.
There's a man suspected, said Mr. Peckety.
Who is it?
Master Davey.
Implored Ham.
Go out a bit and let me tell him what I must.
You don't ought to hear it, sir.
I felt the shock again.
I sank down in a chair
and tried to utter some reply,
but my tongue was fettered
and my sight was weak.
For some time passed, Ham faltered.
There's been a servant about here
and it seems there's been a gentleman, too.
Both of them belong to one another.
Mr. Peckety stood fixed as before,
but now looking at him,
the servant pursued Ham,
was seen along with our poor girl last night.
He's been in hiding about here this week or over.
He was thought to have gone, but he was hiding.
Don't say, Master Davey, don't.
I felt Peckety's arm round my neck,
but I could not have moved if the house
had been about to fall upon me.
For the Lord's love, said Mr. Peckety,
falling back and putting out his hand
as if to keep off what he dreaded.
Don't tell me the gentleman's name
is Steeleforth.
Master Davey exclaimed Ham
in a broken voice,
and I know fully you're
and I am far from laying of it to you,
but his name is Steeleforth
and he is a damned villain.
Mr. Peckety uttered no cry
and shed no tear
and moved no more
until he seemed to wake again all at once
and pulled down his rough coat
from its peg in a corner.
I'm going to seek my niece.
I'm going to seek my Emily.
I'm going first to stave him out of your boat
and sink it where I would have dreamt him
as I would have never in soul
if I had had one thought of what was in him.
As he sat before me,
he said wildly holding at his clinch's right hand.
As he sat before me, face to face,
striped my damned dad,
but either drowned him and thought it right.
I'm going to seek my niece.
Where? cried Ham,
interposing himself before the door.
Anywhere.
I'm going to seek my niece through the world.
I'm going to find my poor niece in her shame
and bring her back.
Music
The news of what had happened
soon spread through the town.
And so much that as I passed
along the street's next morning,
I overheard the people speaking of it at their doors.
It was on the beach, close down by the sea, that I found them.
It was easy to perceive that they had not slept all last night.
"'We have, um, a mort of torque, sir,' said Mr. Peggarty to me, when we had all three
walked a little while in silence, of what we ought and don't want to do.
"'When we see our course now, my duty here, sir, is done.
"'I am a going to seeker. That's my duty evermore.'
He shook his head when I asked him where he would seeker, and inquired if I were going to London tomorrow.
"'I'll go along with you, sir, if you're agreeable, tomorrow.'
We walked again, for a while, in silence.
Ham, he presently resumed,
"'Ale all to his present work, and go and live with along with my sister.
"'The old boat yonder, every night,' said Mr. Peggarty,
"'the candle must be stood in its old pane of glass, that if ever she should see it,
"'it may seem to say, come back, my child, come back.
"'If ever there's a knock, Ham, to declare a soft knock, out of dark, at your aunt's door,
"'don't you go night, let it be her, not you, that sees my fallen child.'
He walked a little in front of us, and kept before us for some minutes.
During this interval, I glanced at Ham again, and observing the expression on his face,
and his eyes directed to the distant light, I touched his arm.
When I had last inquired on what his thoughts were so bent, he replied,
"'And what's for me, Master Davy?'
"'And over, young, on the life before you, do you mean?'
He had pointed confusedly out to sea.
"'Ay, Master Davy, I don't rightly know the word, Ches,
"'but from over, young, there seemed to me to come the end of it,
"'like looking at me as if he were waking, but with the same determined face.
"'What end?' I asked, possessed by fear.
"'I don't know,' he said thoughtfully.
"'I was calling to mind that the beginning of it all did take place here,
"'and the end come.'
"'But it's gone.'
"'Ah, Sir Davy,' he added.
"'You are no call to be afraid of me, but I'm, er, queen, muddled.
"'I don't fear to feel no matters,'
"'which was as much as to say that he was not himself, and quite confounded.
"'It was much later when I went home to Pegatis,
"'more melancholy myself if possible than I had been yet.
"'In the morning I was joined by Mr. Pegatis and by my old nurse,
"'and we went at an early hour to the coach office.
"'When we got to our journey's end,
"'our first pursuit was to look about for a little lodging for Pegatis,
"'where her brother could have a bed.
"'We were so fortunate as to find one of a very clean and cheap description
"'over a chandler's shop, only two streets removed from me.
"'When we had engaged this domicile,
"'I bought some cold meat at an eating-house
"'and took my fellow travellers home to tea.
"'It was a warm, dusty evening when Mr. Pegatis turned alone
"'at the corner of our shady street into a glow of light, in which we lost him.
"'I thought of his solitary figure toiling on and recalled the words,
"'I am a going-to-seeker, fur and white.'
"'All this time I had gone on loving Dora harder than ever.
"'Her idea was my refuge in disappointment and distress
"'and made some amends to me even for the loss of my friend.
"'It came about in the end that Mr. Spenlow told me this day week was Dora's birthday
"'and he would be glad if I would come down
"'and join a little picnic on the occasion.
"'I went out of my senses immediately
"'and passed the intervening period in a state of dotage.
"'At six in the morning I was in Covent Garden Market buying a bouquet for Dora.
"'At ten I was on horseback with a bouquet in my hat to keep it fresh,
"'trotting down to Norwood.
"'There was a young lady with her.
"'Her name was Miss Mills and Dora called her Julia.
"'She was the bosom friend of Dora.
"'Happy, Miss Mills.'
"'You'll be so glad to hear, Mr. Copperfield,' said Dora,
"'that that cross, Miss Merdstone, is not here.
"'She will be away at least three weeks. Isn't that delightful?'
"'Miss Mills, with an air of superior wisdom and benevolence, smiled upon us.
"'She is the most disagreeable thing I ever saw,' said Dora.
"'You can't believe how ill-tempered and shocking she is, Julia.'
"'Yes, I can, my dear,' said Julia.
"'You can, perhaps, love,' returned Dora, with her hand on Julia's.
"'Forgive my not accepting you, my dear, at first.
"'I learnt from this that Miss Mills had had her trials
"'in the course of a chequered existence,
"'and that to these perhaps I might refer that wise benignity of manner
"'which I had already noticed.
"'I found in the course of the day that this was the case.
"'Miss Mills, having been unhappy in a misplaced affection
"'and being understood to have retired from the world
"'on her awful stock of experience,
"'but still to take a calm interest
"'in the unblighted hopes and loves of youth.
"'But now Mr. Spenlow came out of the house,
"'and Dora went to him, saying,
"'Look, Papa, what beautiful flowers!'
"'And Miss Mills smiled thoughtfully, as who should say,
"'Ye may flies, enjoy your brief existence
"'in the bright morning of life.
"'And we all walked from the lawn towards the carriage
"'which was getting ready.
"'I shall never have such a ride again.
"'I have never had such another.
"'There were only those three in the fairton,
"'and of course the fairton was open,
"'and I rode behind it, and Dora sat with her back to the horses
"'looking towards me.
"'I don't know how long we were going,
"'and to this hour I know as little where we went.
"'Perhaps it was near Guildford,
"'perhaps some Arabian night magician
"'opened the place for the day
"'and shut it up forever when we came away.
"'It was a green spot on a hill carpeted with soft turf.
"'There were shady trees and heather,
"'and as far as the eye could see, a rich landscape.
"'It was a trying thing to find people here waiting for us,
"'and my jealousy, even of the ladies, knew no bounds.
"'I was happier when the party broke up,
"'and the other people went their several ways,
"'and we went ours through the still evening
"'and the dying light, with sweet scents rising up around us.
"'Mr. Spenlow, being a little drowsy after the champagne
"'and being fast asleep in a corner of the carriage,
"'I rode by the side and talked to Dora.
"'She admired my horse and patted him,
"'and her shawl would not keep right,
"'and now and then I drew it round her with my arm.
"'Mr. Copperfield,' said Miss Mills,
"'come to this side of the carriage a moment
"'if you can spare a moment.
"'I want to speak to you.
"'Dora is coming to stay with me.
"'She's coming home with me the day after tomorrow.
"'If you would like to call,
"'I am sure Papa would be happy to see you.
"'What could I do but invoke a silent blessing
"'on Miss Mills's head
"'and store Miss Mills's address
"'in the securest corner of my memory?
"'When I awoke next morning,
"'I was resolute to declare my passion to Dora
"'and know my fate.
"'Happiness or misery was now the question.
"'At last, a raid for the purpose at a vast expense,
"'I went to Miss Mills's, fraught with a declaration.
"'I was shown into a room upstairs
"'where Miss Mills and Dora were.
"'Miss Mills was very glad to see me
"'and very sorry her papa was not at home,
"'though I thought we all bore that with fortitude.
"'Miss Mills was conversational for a few minutes
"'and then laying down her pen got up and left the room.
"'I began to think I would put it off till tomorrow.
"'I hope your poor horse was not tired
"'when he got home at night,' said Dora,
"'lifting up her beautiful eyes.
"'It was a long way for him.
"'I began to think I would do it today.
"'It was a long way for him,' said I,
"'for he had nothing to uphold him on the journey.
"'I don't know how I did it.
"'I did it in a moment.
"'I had Dora in my arms.
"'I was full of eloquence.
"'I never stopped for a word.
"'I told her how I loved her.
"'I told her I should die without her.
"'I told her that I idolized and worshipped her.'
"'Well, well, Dora and I were sitting on the sofa
"'by and by quiet enough.
"'It was off my mind.
"'I was in a state of perfect rapture.
"'Dora and I were engaged.'
"'I wrote to Agnes as soon as Dora and I were engaged.
"'I wrote her a long letter,
"'in which I tried to make her comprehend how blessed I was
"'and what a darling Dora was.
"'While I had been away from home lately,
"'traddles had called twice or thrice.
"'Finding Pegaty within and being informed by Pegaty
"'that she was my old nurse,
"'he had established a good human acquaintance with her
"'and had stayed to have a little chat with her about me.
"'This reminds me that I expected
"'traddles on a certain afternoon of his own appointing,
"'which was now come.
"'My dear Copperfield,' cried Traddles,
"'punchily appearing at my door,
"'how do you do?
"'My dear Traddles,' said I,
"'I'm delighted to see you at last
"'and very sorry I've not been at home before,
"'but I've been so much engaged.
"'Yes, yes, I know,' said Traddles.
"'Of course, yours lives in London, I think.
"'What did you say?'
"'She, excuse me, Miss D.
"'You know,' said Traddles,
"'colouring in his great delicacy,
"'lives in London, I believe.
"'Oh, yes, near London.
"'Mine, perhaps you recollect,' said Traddles,
"'with a serious look, lives down in Devonshire,
"'one of ten, consequently I'm not so much engaged as you.
"'In that sense.
"'I wonder how you can bear to see her so seldom,'
I returned.
"'Ah,' said Traddles, thoughtfully.
"'It does seem a wonder.
"'I suppose it is, Copperfield,
"'because there's no help for it.'
"'I then inquired how Mr. McCorber was.
"'He's quite well, Copperfield, thank you,' said Traddles.
"'I'm not living with him at present.
"'No?'
"'No.
"'You say the truth is,' said Traddles in a whisper.
"'He had changed his name to Mortimer,
"'in consequence of his temporary embarrassments,
"'and he don't come out till after dark,
"'and then in spectacles,
"'there was an execution put into our house for rent.
"'I have been living in a furnished apartment since then,
"'Mortimer's have been very private indeed.'
"'When later that evening we turned into my chambers,
"'Pegaty having joined us in a stroll,
"'we were very much surprised to find my outer door standing open
"'and to hear voices inside.
"'What was my amazement to find of all people upon earth,
"'my aunt there and Mr. Dick,
"'my aunt sitting on a quantity of luggage
"'with her two birds before her and her cat on her knee
"'female Robinson Crusoe drinking tea?'
"'My dear aunt,' cried I,
"'what an unexpected pleasure.'
"'Hello,' said my aunt to Pegaty,
"'who quailed before her awful presence.
"'How are you?'
"'You remember my aunt?'
"'Pegaty,' said I.
"'For the love of goodness, child,' exclaimed my aunt,
"'don't call the woman by that South Sea Island name
"'if she married and got rid of it.
"'Why don't you give her the benefit of the change?
"'Why now, P?
"'Barches, ma'am,' said Pegaty with a curtsy.
"'Well, that's human,' said my aunt.
"'It sounds less as if you wanted a missionary.
"'How do you do, Barches?
"'I hope you well.'
"'Encouraged by these gracious words
"'and by my aunt's extending her hand,
"'Barches came forward and took the hand
"'and curtsied her acknowledgments.
"'Trout,' said my aunt at last
"'when she had finished her teep.
"'You needn't go, Barches.
"'Trout, have you got to be firm and self-reliant?'
"'I hope so, aunt.
"'Then why, my love,' said my aunt,
"'looking earnestly at me,
"'why do you think I prefer to sit upon
"'this property of mine tonight?'
"'I shook my head, unable to guess.
"'Because,' said my aunt,
"'it's all I have.
"'Because I'm ruined, my dear.
"'All I have in the world is in this room,
"'except the cottage,
"'and that I have left Janet to let.
"'Barches, I want to get a bed
"'for this gentleman tonight to save expense.
"'Perhaps you can make something here for myself.
"'Anything will do, it's only for tonight.
"'We'll talk about this more tomorrow.'"
My aunt, next day, was in a composed frame of mind,
which was a lesson to all of us.
To me, I'm sure.
She was extremely gracious to Pegaty,
except when I inadvertently called her by that name,
and, strange as I knew she felt in London,
appeared quite at home.
She was to have my bed,
and I was to lie in the sitting-room to keep guard over her.
"'Trout,' said she.
"'I don't care for strange faces in general,
"'but I rather like that barquess of yours, do you know?'
"'It's better than a hundred pounds to hear you say so,' said I.
My aunt abruptly changed the subject.
"'Now, Trot, you fancy yourself in love, do you?'
"'Fancy, aunt,' I exclaimed as red as I could be.
"'I adore her with my whole soul.
"'Dora indeed,' returned my aunt.
"'And you mean to say the little thing is very fascinating?'
"'I suppose,' my dear aunt, I replied.
"'No one can form the least idea what she is.'
"'Ah, well,' said my aunt,
"'I don't want to put two young creatures out of conceit with themselves,
"'or to make them unhappy.
"'So, though it is a girl-and-boy attachment,
"'mine, I don't say always, come to nothing,
"'still we'll be serious about it,
"'and hope for a prosperous issue one of these days.'
"'How miserable I was when I lay down.
"'How I thought and thought about my being poor in Mr. Spenlow's eyes,
"'about my not being what I thought I was when I proposed to Dora,
"'about the chivalrous necessity of telling Dora what my worldly condition was,
"'and releasing her from her engagement if she thought fit.
"'About how I should contrive to live during the long term of my articles
"'when I was earning nothing, about doing something to assist my aunt
"'and seeing no way of doing anything.
"'When I left off trying to get to sleep,
"'the sun was shining in through the window.
"'I soon came to the conclusion that the first step I ought to take
"'was to try if my articles could be cancelled and the premium recovered.
"'Having consulted with both of them,
"'I was completely bewildered between Mr. Spenlow and Mr. Jorkins
"'as to which of them really was the objecting partner,
"'but I saw with sufficient clearness that there was obduracy somewhere in the firm
"'and that the recovery of my aunt's thousand pounds was out of the question.
"'In a state of despondency, I left the office and went homeward.
"'A hackney chariot coming after me
"'and stopping at my very feet occasioned me to look up.
"'Agnus,' I joyfully exclaimed,
"'my dear Agnes of all people in the world, what a pleasure to see you.
"'She was going to my rooms to see my aunt,
"'who had written her one of the odd abrupt notes to which her epistolary efforts
"'were usually limited.
"'She had stated therein that she had fallen into adversity
"'and was leaving Dover for good,
"'but had quite made up her mind to it and was so well
"'that nobody need be uncomfortable about her.
"'Agnus was not alone,' she said.
"'Her papa was with her and Uriah heap.
"'And now they are partners,' said I,
"'confound him.'
"'Yes,' said Agnes.
"'They have some business here
"'and I took advantage of their coming to come too.
"'You must not think my visit all friendly and disinterested Trotwood,
"'for I do not like to let papa go away alone with him.'
"'Does he exercise the same influence over Mr. Wickfield still, Agnes?'
"'Agnus shook her head.
"'There is such a change at home,' said she,
"'that she would scarcely know the dear old house.
"'They live with us now.'
"'They,' said I, Mr. Heep and his mother,
"'he sleeps in your old room,' said Agnes,
"'looking up into my face.
"'I wish I had the ordering of his dreams,' said I.
"'He wouldn't sleep there long.'
"'We found my aunt alone
"'and soon began to talk about her losses.'
"'Betsy Trotwood,' said my aunt,
"'had a certain property.
"'It don't matter how much, enough to live on.
"'More, for she had saved a little and added to it.
"'Betsy funded her property for some time
"'and then, by the advice of her man of business,
"'laid it out on landed security.
"'That did very well and returned very good interest,
"'till Betsy was paid off.
"'Then Betsy had to look about her for a new investment
"'and she took it into her head to lay it out for herself.
"'First she lost in the mining-way
"'and then she lost in the diving-way,
"'fishing up treasure or some such Tom Tiddler nonsense,'
"'explained my aunt, rubbing her nose.
"'And then she lost in the mining-way again
"'and, last of all, to set the thing entirely to rights,
"'she lost in the banking-way.
"'Now, what's to be done?
"'Here's the cottage.
"'Taking one time with another will produce, say, 70 pounds a year.
"'Well, that's all we've got.
"'I have a little ready money,
"'and I believe the best thing we can do
"'is to live the term out here and get a bedroom hard by.'
"'I have been thinking,' trot would, said Agnes, diffidently,
"'that if you had time, I have a good deal of time, Agnes.
"'I'm always disengaged after four or five o'clock,
"'and I have time early in the morning.
"'I know you would not mind,' said Agnes,
"'the duties of a secretary.
"'Mind, my dear Agnes,
"'because,' continued Agnes,
"'Dr. Strong has acted on his intention of retiring
"'and has come to live in London,
"'and he asked Papa if he could recommend him one.
"'Don't you think he would rather have his favourite old pupil near him
"'than anybody else?'
"'Dear Agnes,' said I,
"'what should I do without you?
"'You are always my good angel.
"'I never think of you in any other light.'
"'Then a knock came at the door.
"'I think,' said Agnes, turning pale,
"'it's Papa.
"'He promised me that he would come.
"'I opened the door and admitted not only Mr. Wickfield,
"'but Uriah Heep.
"'I had not seen Mr. Wickfield at some time.
"'I was prepared for a great change in him
"'after what I had heard from Agnes,
"'but his appearance shocked me.
"'It was not that he looked many years older.
"'The thing that struck me most
"'was that with the evidences of his native's superiority
"'still upon him, he should submit himself
"'to that crawling impersonation of meanness, Uriah Heep.
"'If I had seen an ape taking command of a man,
"'I should hardly have thought it a more degrading spectacle.'"
When I approached Dr. Strong's cottage next morning,
I saw him walking in the garden at the side.
I made bold to open the gate and walk after him,
so as to meet him when he should turn round.
When he did, and came towards me,
he looked at me thoughtfully for a few moments,
evidently without thinking about me at all.
I thought to myself,
"'Why, my dear Copperfield,' said the doctor,
"'you are a man! How do you do?
"'I'm delighted to see you, my dear Copperfield,
"'how very much you have improved!
"'You're quite, yes, dear, me!'
Now, I thought to myself,
"'Why, my dear Copperfield,
"'why, my dear Copperfield,
"'why, my dear Copperfield,
"'why, my dear Copperfield,
"'why, my dear Copperfield,
"'why, my dear Copperfield,
"'my dear me!'
Now, my dear Copperfield,
"'in reference to this proposal of yours,
"'it's very gratifying and agreeable to me,
"'I'm sure, but don't you think you could do better?
"'Certainly you're having a profession
"'and being actually engaged in studying it
"'and makes a difference.
"'And my good friend, what's seventy pounds a year?
"'It doubles our income, Dr. Strong,
"'and I shall be twenty times happier, sir,' said I,
"'with a little, I hope, innocent flattery
"'if my employment is to be on the dictionary.
"'We settled to begin next morning at seven o'clock.
"'We were to work two hours every morning
"'and two or three hours every night
"'except on Saturdays, when I was to rest.
"'On Sundays, of course, I was to rest also,
"'and I considered these very easy terms.
"'I was pretty busy now,
"'up at five in the morning and home at nine or ten at night,
"'but I had infinite satisfaction
"'in being so closely engaged
"'and never walked slowly on any account
"'and felt enthusiastically that the more I tired myself,
"'the more I was doing to deserve Dora.
"'Not satisfied with all these proceedings,
"'but burning with impatience to do something more,
"'I went to see Traddles,
"'now lodging up behind the parapet of a house
"'in Castle Street, Hoban.
"'The subject on which I had to consult Traddles was this.
"'I had heard that many men distinguished
"'in various pursuits had begun life
"'by reporting the debates and parliament.
"'Traddles having mentioned newspapers to me
"'as one of his hopes, I had put the two things together
"'and told Traddles in the letter that I wished to know
"'how I could qualify myself for this pursuit.
"'Traddles now informed me,
"'as the result of his inquiries,
"'that the mere mechanical acquisition necessary,
"'except in rare cases, for thorough excellence in it,
"'that is to say, a perfect and entire command
"'of the mystery of shorthand writing and reading
"'was about equal in difficulty to the mastery of six languages
"'in that it might perhaps be attained by dint of perseverance
"'in the course of a few years.
"'I am very much obliged to you, my dear Traddles,' said I.
"'I'll begin tomorrow.
"'I'll buy a book with a good scheme of this art in it.
"'I'll work at it at the commons, but I haven't half enough to do.
"'I'll take down the speeches in our court for practice.
"'Traddles, my dear fellow, are master it.
"'I hardly know which was the better place, Traddles or I.
"'It really,' said Traddles suddenly,
"'taking a letter out of his pocket and giving it to me,
"'but Mr. McCorber, quite out of my head, the letter ran thus.
"'My dear Copperfield, you may possibly not be unprepared
"'to receive the intimation that something has turned up.
"'I may have mentioned to you on a former occasion
"'that I was in expectation of such an event.
"'I am about to establish myself in one of the provincial towns
"'of our favoured island, in immediate connection with one
"'of the learned professions.
"'If on the eve of such a departure you will accompany
"'our mutual friend, Mr. Thomas Traddles, to our present abode,
"'and there reciprocate the wishes natural to the occasion,
"'you will confer a boon on one who is ever yours,
"'Wilkins McCorber.'
"'Thus it was that we went off together to the lodging
"'which Mr. McCorber occupied as Mr. Mortimer,
"'and which was situated near the top of the Grayson Road.
"'My dear Copperfield,' said Mr. McCorber,
"'your self and Mr. Traddles find us on the brink of migration
"'and will excuse any little discomforts incidental to that position.
"'My dear Mr. Copperfield,' said Mrs. McCorber,
"'of your friendly interest in all our affairs,
"'I am well assured, my family may consider it banishment
"'if they please, but I am a wife and mother,
"'and I never will desert Mr. McCorber.
"'It may be a sacrifice to amure one's self in a cathedral town,
"'but surely, Mr. Copperfield, if it is a sacrifice in me,
"'it is much more a sacrifice in a man of Mr. McCorber's abilities.'
"'Oh, you are going to a cathedral town,' said I.'
Mr. McCorber replied,
"'To Canterbury, I have entered into arrangements
"'by virtue of which I stand pledged and contracted to our friend Heap,
"'to assist and serve him in the capacity of,
"'to be his confidential clerk.'
"'I stared at Mr. McCorber, who greatly enjoyed my surprise.
"'My friend Heap has not fixed the positive remuneration
"'at too high a figure, but he has made a great deal
"'in the way of extrication from the pressure of pecuniary difficulties,
"'contingent on the value of my services,
"'and on the value of those services, I pin my faith.'
Mr. McCorber resumed his seat on the clothes of these remarks
and drank two glasses of punch in grave's accession.
"'As yet, little Dora was quite unconscious
"'of my desperate fortunes,
"'otherwise than as my letters darkly shadowed it forth.
"'But another Saturday came,
"'on that Saturday evening she was to be at Miss Mills's,
"'and when Mr. Mills had gone to his wist club,
"'I was to go there to tea.
"'At the appointed time in the evening,
"'I repaired to Mr. Mills's street.
"'Dora came to the drawing-room door to meet me,
"'and we went in as happy and loving as could be.
"'I soon carried desolation into the bosom of our joys
"'by asking Dora without the smallest preparation
"'if she could love a beggar.
"'That's me, anything so foolish,' pouted Dora.
"'Love a beggar!'
"'Dora, my own dearest,' said I.
"'I am a beggar.'
"'Then I told her, with my arms clasped round her,
"'how I loved her so dearly,
"'how I felt it right to offer to release her from her engagement
"'because now I was poor,
"'how I never could bear it or recover it if I lost her,
"'how I had no fears of poverty if she had none,
"'my arm being nerved and my heart inspired by her,
"'already working with a courage such as none but lovers knew
"'how I had begun to be practical and looked into the future.
"'Is your heart mine still?'
"'Dear Dora,' said I rapturously,
"'for I knew by her clinging to me that it was.'
"'Oh, yes!' cried Dora.
"'Oh, yes, it's all yours, so don't be dreadful.'
"'I dreadful to Dora.
"'Don't talk about being poor and working hard,' said Dora,
"'nestling closer to me.
"'Oh, don't, don't!'
"'My dearest love,' said I, the crust well-earned.
"'Oh, yes, but I don't want to hear any more about crusts,' said Dora,
"'and Jip must have a mutton chop every day at twelve, or he'll die.'
"'I did not allow my resolution with respect
"'to the parliamentary debates to cool.
"'I bought an approved scheme of the noble art and mystery of stenography
"'and plunged into a sea of perplexity that brought me in a few weeks
"'to the confines of distraction.
"'I resorted to trattles for advice,
"'who suggested that he should dictate speeches to me at a pace
"'and with occasional stoppages adapted to my weakness.
"'Very grateful for this friendly aid,
"'I accepted the proposal, and night after night,
"'almost every night for a long time,
"'we had a sort of private parliament in Buckingham Street
"'after I came home from the doctors.
"'One day, when I went to the commons as usual,
"'I found Mr. Spenlow in the doorway looking extremely grave
"'and talking to himself.
"'Instead of returning my good morning with his usual affability,
"'he looked at me in a distant, ceremonious manner
"'and coldly requested me to accompany him to a certain coffee-house
"'which in those days had a door opening into the commons
"'just within the little archway in St. Paul's chair-chart.
"'I complied in a very uncomfortable state.
"'My mind misgave me that he had found out about my darling Dora.
"'If I had not guessed this on the way to the coffee-house,
"'I could hardly have failed to know what was the matter
"'when I followed him into an upstairs room
"'and found Miss Mirdstone there.'
"'Have the goodness to show, Mr. Copperfield,' said Mr. Spenlow,
"'what you have in your reticule, Miss Mirdstone.
"'Miss Mirdstone opened it and produced my last letter to Dora,
"'teaming with expressions of devoted affection.'
"'I believe that is your writing, Mr. Copperfield,' said Mr. Spenlow.
"'It is, sir. If I am not mistaken,' said Mr. Spenlow,
"'as Miss Mirdstone brought a parcel of letters out of her reticule,
"'those are also from your pen, Mr. Copperfield.
"'Miss Mirdstone, be so good as to proceed.'
"'That gentle creature delivered herself with much dry unction as follows.
"'I must confess to having entertained my suspicions of Miss Spenlow
"'in reference to David Copperfield for some time.
"'Still I found no proof until last night.
"'Last evening, after tea, I observed the little dog
"'starting, rolling, and growling about the drawing-room worrying something.
"'I said to Miss Spenlow, Dora, what is that? The dog has in his mouth.
"'It's paper.'
"'Miss Spenlow immediately put her hand to her frock,
"'gave a sudden cry, and ran to the dog.
"'I interposed and said, Dora, my love, you must permit me.
"'At length I obtained possession of it.
"'After perusing it, I taxed Miss Spenlow with having many such letters in her possession
"'and ultimately obtained from her to pack it,
"'which is now in David Copperfield's hand.
"'Here she ceased.
"'You have heard Miss Mirdstone,' said Mr. Spenlow, turning to me.
"'I beg to ask, Mr. Copperfield, if you have anything to say in reply.
"'There is nothing I can say, sir,' I returned.
"'Except that all the blame is mine.
"'Dora was induced and persuaded by me to consent to this concealment,
"'and I bitterly regret it.
"'You are very much to blame, sir,' said Mr. Spenlow,
"'walking to and fro upon the hearthrack.
"'However, you are both very young.
"'Let there be an end of the nonsense.
"'Take away those letters and throw them in the fire,
"'and although our future intercourse must, you are aware.
"'Be restricted to the commons here.
"'Make no further mention of the past.'
"'No, I couldn't think of agreeing to it.
"'I was very sorry, but there was a higher consideration than sense.'
"'Very well, Mr. Copperfield,' said Mr. Spenlow.
"'I must try my influence with my daughter.
"'You are probably aware, Mr. Copperfield,
"'that I am not altogether destitute of worldly possessions
"'and that my daughter is my nearest and dearest relative.
"'I might be induced in some anxious moment to guard her from
"'and surround her with protections against the consequences
"'of any foolish step in the way of marriage.
"'In the meantime, confer with Miss Trotwood
"'or with any person with any knowledge of life,'
said Mr. Spenlow, adjusting his cravat with both hands.
"'Take a week, Mr. Copperfield.'
"'I confided all to my aunt when I got home,
"'and in spite of all she could say to me,
"'went to bed despairing.
"'I got up despairing and went out despairing.
"'It was Saturday morning and I went straight to the commons.
"'I was surprised when I came within sight of our office door
"'to see the ticket-porters standing outside, talking together
"'and some half-dozen stragglers gazing at the windows which were shut up.
"'The clerks were there, but nobody was doing anything.'
"'This is a dreadful calamity, Mr. Copperfield,' said old Tiffy,
"'the clerk, as I entered.
"'What is?' I exclaimed.
"'What's the matter?'
"'Don't you know?' cried Tiffy,
"'and all the rest of them coming round me.
"'No,' said I, looking from face to face.
"'Mr. Spenlow,' said Tiffy.
"'What about him?'
"'Dead!'
"'I thought it was the office reeling and not I,
"'as one of the clerks caught hold of me.
"'They sat me down in a chair, untied my neckcloth,
"'and brought me some water.'
"'Dead,' said I.
"'He dined in town yesterday
"'and drove down in the fate and by himself,' said Tiffy.
"'Evansett, he's own group home by the coach,
"'as his sub-nurse did, you know.
"'Well, the phantom went home without him.
"'The horses stopped at a stable gate.
"'The man went out with a lantern.
"'Nobody in it.
"'The house was roused up directly.
"'Three of them went out along the road.
"'They found him a mile off.'
"'It appeared a wonderful thing to me,
"'but it turned out that there was no will.
"'What was scarcely less astonishing to me
"'was that his affairs were in a most disordered state.
"'It was extremely difficult, I heard,
"'to make out what he owed, or what he had paid,
"'or of what he died possessed.
"'There was a sale of the furniture and lease at Norwood,
"'and Tiffy told me, little thinking how interested I was
"'in the story, that paying all the just debts of the deceased
"'and deducting his share of outstanding bad
"'and doubtful debts due to the firm,
"'he wouldn't give a thousand pounds
"'for all the assets remaining.
"'This was at the expiration of about six weeks.
"'I had suffered tortures all the time,
"'and thought I really must have laid violent hands upon myself
"'when Miss Mills still reported to me
"'that my broken-hearted little dora
"'would say nothing when I was mentioned,
"'but, oh poor papa, oh dear papa,
"'also that she had no other relations than two aunts,
"'maiden sisters of Mr. Spenlow, who lived at Putney,
"'and who had not held any other than chance communication
"'with their brother for many years.
"'These two ladies now emerged from their retirement
"'and proposed to take Dora to live at Putney.
"'Dora, clinging to them both and weeping, exclaimed,
"'Oh yes, aunts, please take Julia Mills
"'and me and Jip to Putney.'
"'So they went, very soon after the funeral.'
["Pomp and Circumstance"]
My aunt, beginning I imagined to be made seriously uncomfortable by my prolonged dejection, made
a pretence of being anxious that I should go to Dover to see that all was working well
at the cottage which was let, and to conclude an agreement with the same tenant for a longer
term of occupation.
I found everything in a satisfactory state of the cottage in Dover, having settled the
little business I had to transact there, and slept there one night, I walked on to Canterbury
early in the morning.
It was now winter again, and the fresh cold windy day, and the sweeping downland brightened
up my hopes a little.
Arrived at Mr. Wickfield's house, I found, in the little lower room on the ground floor,
where Uriah Heap had been of old accustomed to sit, Mr. McCorber, plying his pen with
great assiduity.
He was extremely glad to see me, but a little confused too.
He would have conducted me immediately into the presence of Uriah, but I declined.
I know the house of old, you recollect, said I, and will find my way upstairs.
I took my leave of Mr. McCorber for the time, charging him with my best remembrances to
all at home.
As I left him, I clearly perceived that there was something interposed between him and me,
since he had come into his new functions, which prevented our getting at each other as
we used to do, and quite altered the character of our intercourse.
There was no one in the quaint old drawing-room, though it presented tokens of Mrs. Heap's
whereabouts.
I looked into the room still belonging to Agnes, and saw her sitting by the fire at
a pretty old-fashioned desk she had, writing.
My darkening the light made her look up.
Oh, Agnes, said I, when we were sitting together side by side, I have missed you so much lately.
Whenever I have not had you, Agnes, to advise and approve in the beginning, I have seemed
to go wild and to get into all sorts of difficulty.
When I have come to you, I have come to peace and happiness.
I come home now, like a tired traveller, and find such a blessed sense of rest.
I felt so deeply what I said, that my voice failed, and I broke into tears.
She soon won me from this witness, and led me on to tell all that had happened since
our last meeting.
And there is not another word to tell, Agnes, said I, when I had made an end of my confidence.
Now my reliance is on you.
I think, said Agnes, that the honourable course to take would be to write to those two ladies.
Don't you think that any secret course is an unworthy one?
Yes, if you think so, said I.
I am poorly qualified to judge of such matters, applied, Agnes, with a modest hesitation.
But I certainly feel, in short, I feel that your being secret and clandestine is not being
like yourself.
I had no longer any doubt on the subject.
With a lightened heart, though with a profound sense of the weighty importance of my task,
I devoted the whole afternoon to the composition of the draft of this letter, for which great
purpose Agnes relinquished her desk to me.
But first I went downstairs to see Mr Wickfield and Uriah Heap.
I found Uriah in possession of a new, plaster-smelling office, built out in the garden, looking extraordinarily
mean in the midst of a quantity of books and papers.
He accompanied me into Mr Wickfield's room, and stood before the fire warming his back
and shaving his chin with his bony hand, while Mr Wickfield and I exchanged greetings.
You stay with us, Trotwood, while you remain in Canterbury?
said Mr Wickfield, not without a glance at Uriah for his approval.
It was settled that I should have the other room, and taking my leave of the firm until
dinner, I went upstairs again.
When we three men were left alone after dinner, Uriah got into a more adventurous state.
He had taken little or no wine, and I presume it was the mere insolence of triumph that
was upon him, flushed perhaps by the temptation my presence furnished to its exhibition.
We seldom see our present visitor, sir, he said, addressing Mr Wickfield, sitting such
a contrast to him at the end of the table, and I should propose to give him welcome in
another glass or two of wine, if you have no objections.
Mr Copperfield, your health and happiness, come, fellow partner, said Uriah, I'll give
you another one, and I am liars for bumpers, seeing I intend to make it the divinest of
a sex.
I am an humble individual to give you a health, but I admire, adore her.
May I speak out among friends, to be her father is a proud distinction, but to be her husband.
Spare me from ever again hearing such a cry, as that with which her father rose up from
the table.
What's the matter? said Uriah, turning of a deadly colour.
You are not gone mad after all, Mr Wickfield, I hope, if I say I have an ambition to make
your agnes my agnes, I have as good a right to it as another man, I have a better right
to it than any other man.
I had my arms round Mr Wickfield imploring him by everything that I could think of,
definist of all by his love for agnes, to calm himself a little.
He was mad for the moment.
He pointed to Uriah, pale and glowering in a corner, evidently very much out in his calculations
and taken by surprise.
Look at my torturer, he replied, before him I have step by step abandoned name and reputation,
peace and quiet house and home.
Trotwood, Trotwood, exclaimed Mr Wickfield, wringing his hands.
Weak indulgence has ruined me, indulgence in remembrance and indulgence in forgetfulness.
My natural grief for my child's mother turned to disease, my natural love for my child turned
to disease.
I have inflicted everything I touched.
He dropped into a chair and weakly sobbed.
The door opened and agnes gliding in without a vestige of colour in her face put her arm
round his neck and steadily said, Papa, you are not well, come with me.
I didn't expect he could up so rough, asked a couple of field, said Uriah, but it's
nothing.
I'll be friends with him tomorrow.
He's for his good, I'm umbly anxious for his good.
I left the doctors one snowy night to walk home.
As I passed the steps of St Martin's Church, I encountered at the corner a woman's face.
I knew it.
I had seen it somewhere, but I could not remember where.
On those steps there was the stooping figure of a man who had put down some burden on
the smooth snow.
As I went on, he rose, turned and came down towards me.
I stood face to face with Mr Peggarty.
Then I remembered the woman.
It was Martha, to whom Emily had given the money that night in the kitchen.
Martha, Davey.
He said, gripping me tight, do my art good to see you, sir.
Well met, well met.
In those days there was a side entrance to the Golden Cross.
I took him in there and rang the bell for something hot to drink.
When she was a child, he said, she used to talk to me a day about the sea, about them
coasts where the sea got to be dark blue and to lay a shining and a shining in the sun.
So I went across Channel to France and landed there.
I saw the door move and the snow drift in.
I saw it move a little more and a hand softly interposed to keep it open.
I went mostly afoot and when I come to any town, I found the inn and waited about a yard
till someone turned up as an old English.
Then I told her that I was on my way to seek my niece and they told me what manner a gentle
folks was in the house and I waited to see as any as seemed like her going in or out.
When it warned Emily, I went on again.
It was Martha at the door.
I saw her haggard listening face distinctly.
My dread was lest he should turn his head and see her.
At last I come to the sea.
It weren't hard, you may suppose, for a seafarer man like me to work his way over to Italy.
I got news of her being seen among them Swiss mountains yonder.
I made for them mountains, Master Davy, day and night.
But Master Davy, it won't to be, not yet.
I was too late and I was gone.
Some said the ear, some said the ear.
I found no Emily and I travelled home.
How long ago?
I asked.
A matter of a flower days, said Mr Piketty.
I sighted the old boat out of dark and a light was shining in the winder.
From some pocket in his breast he took out with a very careful hand a small paper bundle
containing two or three letters or little packets which he laid upon the table.
The frost weren't gone, he said, before I'd been gone a week, a fifty pound banknote in
a sheet of paper directed to me and put underneath the door in the night.
She tried to hide her right in but she couldn't hide it from me.
He folded up the note again and laid it on one side.
This, come to Mrs Gommage, he said, opening another, two or three months ago.
Some money was enclosed in this letter also, five pounds.
It was untouched like the previous sum and he refolded it in the same way.
Is that another letter in your hand, said I?
It's money, sir, said Mr Piketty, ten pound, you see, and wrote inside from a true friend,
like the first.
But the first was put underneath the door and this come by the post, Dioforiasterty.
I'm not going to seek her at the postmark.
He showed it to me.
It was a town on the upper Rhine.
He gathered up the letters thoughtfully, smoothing them with his hand, put them into their little
bundle and placed it tenderly in his breast again.
The face was gone from the door.
I still saw the snow drifting in but nothing else was there.
I'd go ten thousand mile, he said.
I'd go till I'd drop dead to lay that money down for him.
If I do that and find my amly, I'm content.
As he went out into the rigorous night, I saw the lonely figure flit away before us.
I went with him over Westminster Bridge and parted from him on the Surrey shore.
At last, an answer came from the two old ladies.
They presented their compliments to Mr Copperfield and informed him that they had given his letter
their best consideration with a view to the happiness of both parties.
If Mr Copperfield would do them the favour to call upon a certain day, accompanied if
he thought proper by a confidential friend, they would be happy to hold some conversation
on the subject.
On our approaching the house where the Mrs Spenlo lived, I was at such a discount in
respect of my personal looks and presence of mind that treadles proposed a gentle stimulant
in the form of a glass of ale.
This having been administered at a neighbouring public house, he conducted me with tottering
steps to the Mrs Spenlo's door.
I had a vague sensation of being as it were on view when the maid opened it and of wavering
somehow across a hall with a weather-glass in it into a quiet little drawing-room on
the ground floor commanding a neat garden.
Ultimately, I found myself backing treadles into the fireplace and bowing in great confusion
to two dry little elderly ladies dressed in black and each looking wonderfully like a
preparation in chip or tin of the late Mr Spenlo.
Prey, said one of the two little ladies, visited.
Mr Copperfield, said the sister with the letter, I did something, bowed, I suppose, and was
all attention when the other sister struck in.
By Sister Levinia, said she, will state what we consider most calculated to promote the
happiness of both parties.
Miss Levinia therefore began.
You ask permission of my sister, Clarissa, and myself, Mr Copperfield, to visit here
as the accepted suitor of our niece.
We have been very careful indeed in considering this letter, and we have not considered it
without finally showing it to our niece and discussing it with our niece.
We have no doubt that you think you like her very much.
Think, ma'am, I rupturously began.
Oh, but Miss Clarissa, giving me a look, just like a sharp canary, as requesting that I
would not interrupt the oracle, I beg to pardon.
It seems to us, continued Miss Levinia, prudent, Mr Trattles, to bring these feelings to the
test of our own observation.
At present we know nothing of them, and are not in a situation to judge how much reality
there may be in them.
For we are inclined so far to accede to Mr Copperfield's proposal as to admit his visits
here.
I shall never, dear ladies, I exclaimed, relieved of an immense load of apprehension.
Forget your kindness.
Sister Clarissa, said Miss Levinia, the rest is with you.
Miss Clarissa took the notes and glanced at them.
We shall be happy, said Miss Clarissa, to see Mr Copperfield to dinner every Sunday.
If it should suit his convenience, our hour is three.
I bowed.
In the course of the week, said Miss Clarissa, we shall be happy to see Mr Copperfield to
tea.
Our hour is half past six.
I bowed again.
Twice in the week, said Miss Clarissa, but as a rule, not oftener, I bowed again.
Miss Trottwood, said Miss Clarissa, mentioned in Mr Copperfield's letter, will perhaps call
upon us?
I intimated that my aunt would be proud and delighted to make their acquaintance, though
I must say I was not quite sure of their getting on very satisfactorily together.
I expressed my acknowledgments in the warmest manner, and taking the hand first of Miss Clarissa
and then of Miss Levinia, pressed it in each case to my lips.
Agnes came on a visit of a fortnight to the doctors, and on a Sunday I took her to see
Dora.
I had arranged the visit beforehand with Miss Levinia, and Agnes was expected to tea.
Dora was afraid of Agnes.
She had told me that she knew Agnes was too clever, but when she saw her looking at one
so cheerful and so earnest and so thoughtful and so good, she gave a faint little cry of
pleased surprise and just put her affectionate arms around Agnes's neck and later innocent
cheek against her face.
I never was so happy.
I never was so pleased as when I saw those two sit down together side by side, as when
I saw the tender, beautiful regard which Agnes cast upon her.
Weeks, months, seasons pass along.
They seem little more than a summer day and a winter evening.
I have come legally to man's estate.
I have attained the dignity of twenty-one.
But this is a sort of dignity that may be thrust upon one.
Let me think what I have achieved.
I have tamed that savage stenographic mystery.
I make a respectable income by it.
I am in high repute for my accomplishment in all pertaining to the art, and I'm joined
with eleven others in reporting the debates and parliament for a morning newspaper.
My dear old Traddles is called to the bar, and with admirable industry and self-denial
has scraped another hundred pounds together to fear Convance, whose chambers he attends.
I have come out in another way.
I have taken with fear and trembling to authorship.
I wrote a little something in secret and sent it to a magazine, and it was published in
the magazine.
Since then I have taken heart to write a good many trifling pieces.
Now I am regularly paid for them.
Altogether I am well off.
We have removed from Buckingham Street to a pleasant little cottage very near the one
I looked at when my enthusiasm first came on.
My aunt, however, who has sold the house at Dover, to good advantage, is not going to
remain here, but intends removing herself to a still more tiny cottage close at hand.
What does this pretend?
My marriage?
Yes.
That last the day has come, and it passes as all a more or less incoherent dream of the
clergyman and clerk appearing of Miss Levinier, who acts as a semi-auxiliary bridesmaid, being
the first to cry, of Agnes taking care of Dora, of my aunt endeavouring to represent
herself as a model of sternness with tears rolling down her face, of little Dora trembling
very much and making her responses in faint whispers, of there being a breakfast with
abundance of things pretty and substantial to eat and drink, whereof I partake as I
should do in any other dream without the least perception of their flavour.
We drive away together, and I awake from the dream.
I believe it at last.
It is my dear, dear little wife beside me, whom I love so well.

===== [4] [Charles Dickens]David Copperfield 4 of 4 =====
I must have been married if I may trust to my imperfect memory for dates about a year
or so. When one evening, as I was returning from a solitary walk, I came past Mrs. Steerforth's
house. I had often passed it before. As I walked on, a voice at my side made me start.
I was not long in recollecting Mrs. Steerforth's little parlour-mate.
If you'd please, sir, would you have the goodness to walk in and speak to Miss Dartle?
Miss Dartle saw you pass a night or two ago, and I was to sit at work on the staircase,
and when I saw you pass again, to ask you to step in and speak to her.
Miss Dartle was in the garden, sitting on a seat at one end of a terrace.
Our meeting was not cordial.
I am told you wish to speak to me, Miss Dartle, said I, standing near her.
If you please, said she.
Pray, has this girl been found? No. And yet she has run away.
Run away, I repeated.
Yes, from him, she said.
If she's not found, perhaps she never will be found. She may be dead.
Do you wish to know what is known of her?
Yes, said I.
She rose, and taking a few steps towards a wall of holly that was near at hand, said in a louder voice,
Come here.
She returned, followed by the respectable Mr. Littimer, who made me bow and took up his position behind her.
Now, said she, imperiously, tell Mr. Copperfield about the flight.
Mr. James and myself have been abroad with the young woman ever since she left Yarmouth under Mr. James's protection.
We have been in a variety of places and seen a deal of foreign country.
Mr. James took quite uncommonly to the young woman.
The young woman was very improvable, spoke the languages, and wouldn't have been known for the same country person.
I noticed that she was much admired wherever we went.
The young woman went on in this manner for some time, until I think she began to weary Mr. James by giving way to her low spirits and tempers of that kind,
and thinkers were not so comfortable.
Mr. James, he began to be restless again. The more restless he got, the worse she got.
At last, when there had been a good many words and reproaches, Mr. James set off one morning from the neighbourhood of Naples where we had a villa,
and under pretence of coming back in the day or so, left in charge with me to break it out that, for the general happiness of all concerned,
he was here an interruption of a short cough.
Gone.
But Mr. James, I must say, certainly did behave extremely honourable, for he proposed that the young woman should marry a very respectable person
who was fully prepared to overlook the past and who was, at least as good as anybody the young woman could have aspired to in a regular way,
her connections being very common.
I was convinced that the scoundrel spoke of himself, and I saw my conviction reflected in Miss Dirtle's face.
The young woman's violence when she came to after I broke the fact of his departure was beyond all expectations.
She was quite mad and had to be held by force.
But when I came to the second part of what had been entrusted to me, said Mr. Littimer,
which anybody might have supposed would have been, at all events, appreciated as a kind intention,
then the young woman came out in her true colours, a more outrageous person I never did see.
If I hadn't been upon my guard, I'm convinced she would have had my blood.
It was necessary, in short, for a time to take away everything nigh, her that she could do herself or anybody else an injury with,
and to shut her up close.
Notwithstanding which, she got out in the night, forced the lattice of a window that I'd nailed up myself,
dropped on a vine that was trailed below, and never has been seen or heard after my knowledge since.
She is dead, perhaps, said Miss Duttle, with a smile.
She may have drowned herself, Miss, returned Mr. Littimer.
When it was clear to me that she was not to be found, I went to Mr. James and informed him of what had occurred.
Words passed between us, in consequence, and I felt it due to my character to leave him.
I am at present out of employment, and should be happy to meet with a respectable situation.
Reflecting on what had been thus told me, I felt it right that it should be communicated to Mr. Peggarty.
On the following evening, I went into London in quest of him.
Master Davey, thank you, sir. Thank you, Hartney, for this visit. Sit ye down. You're kindly welcome, sir.
Mr. Peggarty, said I, taking the chair he handed me, don't expect much.
I have heard some news.
Of Emily?
It gives no clue to where she is, but she is not with him.
He sat down, looking intently at me, and listened in profound silence to all I had to tell.
Now, my dear friend, I began.
If she should make her way to London, which is likely, for where could she lose herself so readily as in this vast city?
If she should come here, I believe there is one person more likely to discover her than any other in the world.
Do you remember, hear what I say with fortitude?
Think of your great object.
Do you remember Martha?
I needed no other answer than his face.
I've seen her in the streets, he answered with a shiver.
But you don't know, said I, that Emily was charitable to her, with Ham's help, long before she fled from home.
Nor, that when we met one night and spoke together in the room yonder, over the way she listened at the door.
Martha Davy, he replied in astonishment.
That night, when it snows so hard!
That night, I've never seen her since.
Do you think that you could find her?
I think, Martha Davy, I know we're a look.
It is dark.
Being together, shall we go out now and try to find her tonight?
He assented and prepared to accompany me.
When we were not far from Blackfriars Bridge, he turned his head and pointed to a solitary female figure,
flitting along the opposite side of the street.
I knew it readily to be the figure that we sought.
We were in the narrow water side street by Millbank before we came up with her.
At that moment, she crossed the road as if to avoid the footsteps that she heard so close behind,
and without looking back, passed on even more rapidly.
The neighbourhood was a dreary one at that time, as oppressive, sad and solitary by night as any about London.
The girl we had followed strayed down to the river's brink and stood, lonely and still, looking at the water.
When I called her name, she uttered a terrified scream and struggled with me with such strength
that I doubt if I could have held her alone.
But a stronger hand than mine was laid upon her.
In a little while, she sat among the stones, holding her wretched head with both her hands.
We stood by in silence until she became more tranquil.
Martha said I then, leaning down and helping her to rise.
Do you know who this is, who is with me?
She said faintly, yes.
Are you composed enough, said I, to speak on the subject which so interested you that snowy night?
Her sobs broke out of fresh, and she murmured some inarticulate thanks to me
for not having driven her away from the door.
Martha, said Mr. Peckety,
God forbid as I should judge you,
forbid as I of all men should do that, my girl.
You know, as I have been, we're not, for to seek my dear niece.
My dear niece, he repeated steadily,
for she's more dear to me now, Martha, than she was dearer for.
According to our reckoning, he proceeded,
she is like one day to make her own poor, solitary course to London.
You're thankful to her, and you love her.
Help us, all you can to find her, and my heaven reward you.
Will you trust me? she asked, in a low voice of astonishment.
Fallen free, said Mr. Peckety.
She lifted up her eyes, and solemnly declared that she would devote herself to this task fervently and faithfully.
We judged it expedient now to tell her all we knew, which I recounted at length.
She asked, when all was told, where we were to be communicated with if occasion should arise.
Under a dull lamp in the road, I wrote our two addresses on a leaf of my pocketbook,
which I tore out and gave to her, and which she put in her poor bosom.
I asked where she lived herself. She said, after a pause, in no place long.
It were better not to know.
Putting out her trembling hand, and touching Mr. Peckety as if there was some healing virtue in him,
she went away along the desolate road.
I laboured hard at my book, without allowing it to interfere with the punctual discharge of my newspaper duties.
And it came out, and was very successful.
I had been writing, in the newspaper and elsewhere, so prosperously,
that when my new success was achieved, I considered myself reasonably entitled to escape from the dreary debates.
One joyful night, therefore, I noted down the music of the parliamentary bagpipes for the last time,
and I have never heard it since.
I now write of the time when I had been married, I suppose, about a year and a half.
After several varieties of experiment, we had given up the housekeeping as a bad job.
The house kept itself, and we kept a page.
As that year wore on, Dora was not strong.
I had hoped that lighter hands than mine would help to mould her character,
and that a baby smile upon her breast might change my child-wife to a woman.
It was not to be.
The spirit fluttered for a moment on the threshold of its little prison,
and unconscious of captivity took wing.
My pretty Dora.
When she came down to dinner one Sunday and was so glad to see old Traddles,
we thought she would be running about as she used to in a few days.
But they said, wait a few days more, and then wait a few days more,
and still she neither ran nor walked.
She looked very pretty, and was very merry,
but the little feet that used to be so nimble when they danced round the jib were dull and motionless.
I began to carry her downstairs every morning and upstairs every night,
but sometimes when I took her up and felt that she was lighter in my arms,
a dead blank feeling came upon me as if I were approaching to some frozen region
yet unseen that numbed my life.
I received one morning by the post the following letter dated Canterbury.
My dear sir,
placed in a mental position of peculiar painfulness,
it is my intention to fly from myself for a short period
and devote a spite of eight and forty hours to revisiting some metropolitan scenes
and my feet will naturally tend towards the King's Bench Prison
stating that I shall be on the outside of the south wall of that place of incarceration
the day after tomorrow at seven in the evening.
My object in this epistolary communication is accomplished.
At the hour and place I have indicated may be found such ruined vestiges as yet remain
of a fallen tower, Wilkins, Micopa.
I had read the letter over several times when travels found me in the height of my perplexity.
My dear fellow, said I,
I never was better pleased to see you.
I have received a very singular letter from Mr. Micopa.
Travels and I held a long conference
and launched into a number of speculations which I need not repeat.
We took my aunt into our councils in the afternoon
but our only decided conclusion was
that we would be very punctual in keeping Mr. Micopa's appointment.
Although we appeared at the stipulated place a quarter of an hour before the time
we found Mr. Micopa already there.
Gentleman, said Mr. Micopa after the first salutations,
you are friends in need and friends in deed.
You are in low spirits, Mr. Micopa, said treadles.
I am, sir, interposed Mr. Micopa.
How is our friend heap, Mr. Micopa, said I, after a silence.
My dear Copperfield, returned Mr. Micopa,
bursting into a state of much excitement and turning pale.
If you ask after my employer as your friend,
I am sorry for it.
If you ask after him as my friend,
I sardorically smile at it.
In whatever capacity you ask after my employer,
I beg, without offense to you, to limit my reply to this,
that whatever his state of health may be,
his appearance is foxy.
Not to say diabolical.
You will allow me, as a private individual,
to decline pursuing a subject which has lashed me
to the utmost verge of desperation in my professional capacity.
I expressed my regret for having innocently touched upon a theme
that roused him so much.
I then mentioned that it would give me great pleasure
to introduce him to my aunt if he would ride out to Highgate,
where a bed was at his service.
We went to my aunt's house rather than to mine
because of Dora's not being well.
My aunt presented herself on being sent for
and welcomed Mr. Micopa with gracious cordiality.
Mr. Micopa kissed her hand, retired to the window,
and pulling out his pocket handkerchief
had a mental wrestle with himself.
I watched Mr. Micopa so anxiously in his vacillations
between an evident disposition to reveal something
and a counter disposition to reveal nothing
that I was in a perfect fever.
Mr. Micopa said I.
What is the matter?
Pray speak out, you are among friends.
Among friends, sir, repeated Mr. Micopa,
and all he had reserved came breaking out of him.
What is the matter, gentlemen?
What is not the matter?
Villainy is the matter,
baseness is the matter,
deception, fraud, conspiracy are the matter,
and the name of the whole atrocious mass is hip.
My aunt clapped her hands and we all started up
as if we were possessed.
The struggle is over, said Mr. Micopa,
violently gesticulating with his pocket handkerchief.
I will lead this life no longer.
I'll put my hand in no man's hands, said Mr. Micopa,
gasping, puffing and sobbing, until I have blown
to fragments the detestable serpent hip.
I'll put take of no one's hospitality until I have moved
Mount Vesuvius to eruption on the abandoned rascal hip.
I'll know nobody and say nothing and live nowhere
until I have crushed to undiscoverable atoms
the transcendent and immortal hypocrite and perjular heap.
I really had some fear of Mr. Micopa's dying on the spot.
I would have gone on to his assistance,
but he waved me off and wouldn't hear a word.
No Copperfield, no communication until Miss Wickfield
dress from wrongs inflicted by conspicuous scoundrel
heap, inviolable secret.
From the whole world, no exceptions.
This day, week at breakfast time, everybody present
to be at the hotel at Canterbury, where Miss McCormick and myself
hold anxiety in chorus and expose intolerable ruffian heap.
Oh, no more to say.
Oh, listen to persuasion.
No, go immediately, not capable.
Bear is highly upon the track of devoted and doomed tracer.
Heep!
With this last repetition of the magic word that had kept him going at all
and in which he surpassed all his previous efforts,
Mr. Micopa rushed out of the house.
While we were yet in the height of our excitement, hope and wonder,
the following note was brought to me from a neighbouring tavern
at which he had called to write it.
Most secret and confidential.
My dear sir, I beg to be allowed to convey through you
my apologies to your excellent heart for my late excitement.
I trust I rendered tolerably intelligible my appointment
for the morning of this day week at the House of Public Entertainment
at Canterbury, where Mrs. McCormick and myself had once the honour
of uniting our voices to yours in the well-known strain
of the immortal excise man nurtured beyond the tweed
with the plain inscription, Wilkins Micopa.
One evening, Mr. Pegate came to tell me that he had found Martha
waiting near his lodging on the preceding night
when he came out and that she had asked him not to leave London
on any account until he should have seen her again.
Did she tell you why, I inquired.
I asked her, Master Davy, he replied,
but it is but few words as she ever says
and she only got my promise and so went away.
I was walking alone in the garden one evening
about a fortnight afterwards.
I happened to turn my eyes towards the road
where I saw a figure dressed in a plain cloak
it was bending eagerly towards me and beckoning.
Martha, can you come with me?
she inquired in an agitated whisper.
I have been to him and he is not at home.
I wrote down where he was to come
and left it on his table with my own hand.
They said he would not be out long.
I have tidings for him.
Can you come directly?
My answer was to pass out of the gate immediately.
I stopped an empty coach that was coming by
and we got into it.
When I asked her where the coachman was to drive
she answered, anywhere near Golden Square and quick.
We proceeded without a word being spoken
and alighted at one of the entrances to the square she had mentioned.
The house swarmed with inmates.
As we went up, doors of rooms were opened
and people's heads put out
and we passed other people on the stairs who were coming down.
We proceeded to the top story of the house.
Two or three times, by the way,
I thought I observed in the indistinct lights
the skirts of a female figure going up before us.
As we turned to ascend the last flight of stairs
between us and the roof
we caught a full view of this figure
pausing for a moment at a door.
Then it turned the handle and went in.
What's this?
said Martha in a whisper.
She's gone into my room.
I don't know her.
I knew her.
I had recognized her with amazement
for Miss Dartle.
Martha softly led me up the stairs
and then into a small empty garret with a low sloping roof.
Between this and the room she had called hers
there was a small door of communication
standing partly open.
Here we stopped, breathless with our ascent
and she placed her hand lightly on my lips.
I could not see Miss Dartle
or the person whom we had heard her address.
A dead silence prevailed for some moments.
It matters little to me her not being at home,
said Rosa Dartle, haughtily.
I know nothing of her.
It is you I come to see.
May?
replied a soft voice.
At the sound of it a thrill went through my frame
for it was Emily's.
Yes, returned Miss Dartle,
I have come to look at you.
You are not ashamed of the face that has done so much?
I've come to see James Steerforth's fancy,
the girl who ran away with him
and is the town talk of the commonest people of a native place.
I want to know what such a thing is like.
There was a rustle as if the unhappy girl
on whom she heaped these taunts ran towards the door.
Stay there, said Miss Dartle,
or I'll proclaim you to the house and the whole street.
If you'll try to evade me I'll stop you,
if it's by the hair and raise the very stones against you.
Miss Dartle placed herself in a chair
within view of the door
and walked downward
as if Emily were crouching on the floor before her.
Being now between me and the light
I could see her curled lip,
her cruel eyes intently fixed on one place
with a greedy triumph.
Listen to what I say, she said,
and reserve your false arts for your dupes.
Do you know what you have done?
Do you ever think of the home you have laid waste?
Oh, is there ever a night or day
when I don't think of it?
Oh, Emily, and now I could just see her,
her pale face looking upwards,
her hands wildly clasped and held out
and her hair streaming about her.
Has there ever been a single minute
waking or sleeping when it hasn't been before me,
just as it used to be in the last days
when I turned my back upon it forever and forever?
Oh, home, home, oh, dear, dear, uncle.
Rosa Dartle sat looking down upon her
as inflexible as a figure of brass.
The miserable vanity of these earthworms,
she said, when she had so far controlled
the angry heavings of her breast
that she could trust herself to speak.
Your home, do you imagine that I bestow a thought on it?
Or suppose you could do any harm to that low place?
You were a part of the trade of your home
and were bought and sold like any other
vindible thing your people dealt in.
I came here to see what such a thing as you was like.
I am satisfied.
Also to tell you that you had best seek
that home of yours with all speed
and hide your head among those excellent people
who are expecting you and whom your money will console.
Hide yourself, she pursued,
if not at home somewhere,
that it be somewhere beyond reach in some obscure life
or better still in some obscure death.
If you live here tomorrow,
I'll have your story and your character
proclaimed on the common stair.
There are decent women in the house, I am told,
it is a pity such a light as you should be among them
and concealed.
If leaving here you seek any refuge in this town
in any character but your true one,
which you are welcome to bear without molestation from me,
the same service shall be done you.
I heard a distant foot upon the stairs.
I knew it, I was certain.
It was his, thank God.
Rosa moved slowly from before the door
and passed out of my sight.
The stairs came nearer, nearer,
passed her as she went down, rushed into the room.
Uncle!
A fearful cry followed the word.
I paused a moment and, looking in,
saw him supporting her insensible figure in his arms.
He gazed for a few seconds in the face,
then stooped to kiss it,
oh, how tenderly,
and drew a handkerchief before it.
Mash her, Davey.
He said in a low, tremulous voice when it was covered.
I thank my heavenly Father,
as my dreams come true.
I thank him heartily for having guided of me in his own ways
to my darling.
It was yet early in the morning of the following day
when I was walking in my garden with my aunt
and I was told that Mr. Pegaty desired to speak with me.
He came into the garden to meet me half way
am I going towards the gate and bared his head,
as it was always his custom to do when he saw my aunt,
for whom he had a high respect.
I took my dear child away last night,
Mr. Pegaty began as he raised his eyes to ours.
To my lodging,
where I have a long time being expected of her
and preparing for her.
It was her as before she knelt me right,
and when she did, she kneeled down at my feet
and kind of said to me as if it was her prayers,
how it all come to be.
We listened to the pitiful tale of her escape
and returned to England.
When he had ended, we all remained silent
and occupied with our own reflections until I spoke.
You have quite made up your mind, said I to Mr. Pegaty,
as to the future, good friend.
I need scarcely ask you,
but quite, Master Davy, he returned,
and told Emily,
there's my eight countries fur from here.
Our future life lays over the sea.
No one can't reproach my darling in Australia.
We'll begin a new life over there.
There's one thing further, Master Davy,
said he, putting his hand in his breast pocket
and gravely taking out the little paper bundle
I had seen before, which he unrolled on the table.
These are his lazier banknotes, 50 pound and 10.
To them I wish to add the money as she come away with.
I've asked her about that and I've added of it up.
This money I shall put up just before I go
in a cover directed to him
and put that up in another directed to his mother.
I shall tell her in no more words than I speak to you
what it's the price on and that I'm gone
and pass receiving of it back.
I said that there was only one thing further,
but there was two.
I weren't sure in my mind when I come out this morning
as I could go and break to arm of my own self
what has so thankfully happened.
So I written a letter while I was out
and put it in the post office,
telling of them how all was as tis
and that I should come down tomorrow
and most likely take my farewell leave of the arm of.
I wish me to go with you, said I.
Oh, if you could do me that, can I fight for Master Davy?
he replied.
Oh, I know this sight on you would cheer him up a bit.
Next morning, consequently,
we were on the Yarmouth coach
and again travelling over the old ground.
We passed along the familiar street at night.
I felt reluctant to be present
when Mr. Pegaty first met his sister and ham
and lingered behind.
After a stroll about the town, I went to Ham's house.
I found them in the neat kitchen
accompanied by Mrs. Gummidge.
He had evidently told them all.
Both Pegaty and Mrs. Gummidge had their aprons to their eyes
and Ham had just stepped out
to take a turn on the beach.
He presently came home, very glad to see me.
We said nothing of Emily by name
but distantly referred to her more than once.
Ham was the serenest of the party.
I thought I had read in his face
that he would like to speak to me alone.
I therefore resolved to put myself in his way
next evening as he came home from his work.
Master Davy?
Have you seen her?
Only for a moment when she was in a swoon,
I softly answered.
But Ham said I gently,
if there is anything you would wish to make known to her
through me, I should consider it a sacred trust.
I think there is something I could wish said or wrote.
We walked a little farther in silence and then he spoke.
Tant that I forgive her.
Tant that so much.
It is more as I beg of her to forgive me
for having pressed my affections upon her.
There is yet something else if I can say it, Master Davy.
We walked on further than we had walked yet
before he spoke again.
I loved her and I loved the memory of her.
Too deep to be able to lead her
to believe of my own self as I'm a happy man.
But if you being so full of learning, Master Davy,
could think of anything to say as Mike bring her to believe
I wasn't greatly hurt.
I should ask of you to say that.
With my prayers for her that was so dear.
I pressed his hand again and told him I would charge myself to do this as well as I could.
I thanked you, sir, he answered.
It was kind of you to meet me.
The door of the boathouse stood open when I approached
and on entering I found it emptied of all its furniture,
save one of the old lockers on which Mrs. Gummidge
with a basket on her knee was seated looking at Mr. Peggarty.
Dannell said Mrs. Gummidge suddenly deserting her basket
and clinging to his arm.
My dear Dannell, the parting words I speak in this house is
I mustn't be left behind.
Don't you think of leaving me behind, Dannell?
Oh, don't you ever do it.
Take me along with you and Emily.
I'll be your servant constant and true.
I can dig, Dannell. I can work.
I can be loving and patient now, more than you think, Dannell,
if you'll only try me.
Next day Mrs. Gummidge and her basket were on the coach
and Mrs. Gummidge was happy.
When the time Mr. McCorber had appointed so mysteriously
was within four and twenty hours of being come,
we four, that is to say my aunt, Mr. Dick, Traddles and I,
went down to Canterbury by the Dover mail.
At the hotel we all became very anxious and impatient
when we sat down to breakfast.
As it approached nearer and nearer to half-past nine o'clock
a restless expectation of Mr. McCorber increased.
At the first chime of the half-hour he appeared in the street.
Gentlemen and Madam, said Mr. McCorber,
Good morning.
Now, sir, said my aunt to Mr. McCorber as she put on her gloves.
We are ready for Mount Vesuvius or anything else,
as soon as you please.
Madam, returned Mr. McCorber,
I trust you will shortly witness an eruption.
Mr. Traddles, I have your permission, I believe,
to mention here that we have been in communication together.
It is undoubtedly the fact, Copperfield, said Traddles.
Mr. McCorber has consulted me
in reference to what he has in contemplation
and I have advised him to the best of my judgment.
Mr. Copperfield, said Mr. McCorber,
I would beg to be allowed to start of five minutes by the clock
and then to receive the pleasant company
at the office of Wickfield and Heep,
whose stipendiary I am.
When the time was expired
we all went out together to the old house.
We found Mr. McCorber at his desk
in the turret office on the ground floor,
either writing or pretending to write hard.
He proceeded us to the dining room
and flinging open the door of Mr. Wickfield's former office,
said in a sonorous voice,
Mr. Trotwood, Mr. David Copperfield,
Mr. Thomas Traddles and Mr. Dixon.
I had not seen Uriah Heep since the time of the blow.
Our visit astonished him, evidently.
A moment afterwards he was as fawning and as humble as ever.
Well, I am sure, he said,
this is indeed an unexpected pleasure
to have as I may say,
all friends round St. Paul's at once
is a treat unlooked for.
McCorber, tell him to let Miss Agnes know.
And mother, mother will be quite in state
when she sees the present company,
said Uriah, setting the chairs.
Agnes was now ushered in by Mr. McCorber.
She was not quite so self-possessed as usual, I thought,
and had evidently undergone anxiety and fatigue.
In the meanwhile some slight sign
passed between Mr. McCorber and Traddles
and Traddles, unobserved, except by me, went out.
Don't wait, McCorber, said Uriah.
Mr. McCorber stood erect before the door.
What are you waiting for? said Uriah.
McCorber, did you hear me tell you not to wait?
Yes, replied the immovable Mr. McCorber.
Then why do you wait? said Uriah.
Because I, in short, choose, replied Mr. McCorber,
with a burst, Uriah's cheeks lost colour
and an unwholesome paleness overspread them.
If there is a scoundrel on this earth, said Mr. McCorber,
suddenly breaking out with the utmost vehemence,
with whom I have already talked too much,
that scoundrel's name is Heep!
Uriah fell back, as if he had been struck or stung,
looking slowly round upon us,
with the darkest and wickedest expression that his face could wear.
He said in a lower voice,
Oh, this is a conspiracy.
You have met him by appointment.
Now take care.
You make nothing of this.
Miss Wickfield, if you have any love for your father,
you had better not join that gang.
I'll ruin him, if you do.
Now, come. I've got some of you under the hat.
I'll think twice before it goes over you.
Where's Mother? he said.
Mrs. Heep is here, sir,
said Traddle's returning with that worthy mother of a worthy son.
Who are you? retorted Uriah.
What do you want here?
I am the agent and friend of Mr. Wickfield, sir,
said Traddle's in a composed and business-like way.
And I have a part of attorney from him in my pocket
to act for him in all matters.
Uriah!
Mrs. Heep began with an anxious gesture.
You hold your tongue, mother, he returned.
Least said, soonest mend it.
Mr. McCorber now moved forward,
drew his ruler from his breast,
produced from his pocket a full-scap document
and began to read as follows.
Dear Miss Trotwood and gentlemen,
in an accumulation of ignominy,
want, despair and madness,
I entered the office of the firm,
nominally conducted under the appellation of Wickfield and
Heep, but in reality wielded by Heep alone.
Heep and only Heep is the mainspring of that machine.
Heep and only Heep is the forger and the cheat.
Uriah, more blue than white, these words made a dart,
the letter as if to tear it to pieces.
Mr. McCorber, with a perfect miracle of dexterity or luck,
caught his advancing knuckles with the ruler
and disabled his right hand.
Mr. McCorber, when he was sufficiently cool,
proceeded with his letter.
It soon became necessary to solicit from Heep
pecuniary advances towards the support
of Mrs. McCorber and our blighted but rising family.
Need I say that this necessity had been foreseen by Heep
and that I thus become enmeshed in the web,
he had spun for my reception.
Then it was that Heep began to favour me
with just so much of his confidence as was necessary
to the discharge of his infernal business.
I found that my services were constantly called into
requisition for the falsification of business
and the mystification of an individual
whom I will designate as Mr. W.
Stimulated by the silent monitor within
and by a no less touching and appealing monitor
without to whom I will briefly refer as Miss W.
I entered on a not unlaborious task of clandestine investigation
protracted now over a period exceeding twelve calendar months.
My charges against Heep, he read on,
glancing at him and drawing the ruler
into a convenient position under his left arm
in case of need, are as follows.
First, said Mr. McCorber,
when Mr. W's faculties and memory for business
became through causes into which it is not necessary
or expedient for me to enter, weakened and confused,
Heep, designedly perplexed and complicated
the whole of the official transactions.
He induced Mr. W to empower him to draw out
thus one particular sum of trust money
amounted to 12, 6, 14, 2 and 9
and employed it to meet pretended business charges
and deficiencies which were either already provided for
or had never really existed.
He gave this proceeding throughout
the appearance of having originated in Mr. W's own dishonest intention
and has used it ever since to torture and constrain him.
You shall prove this, you copperfield!
said Uriah with a threatening shake of the head,
all in good time.
Ask Heep if he ever kept a pocketbook in his house,
said Mr. McCorber.
Will you?
I saw Uriah's lank hand stop involuntarily
in the scraping of his chin
or ask him, said Mr. McCorber,
if he ever burnt one there,
if he says yes and asks you where the ashes are,
refer him to Wilkins McCorber
and he will hear of something not at all to his advantage.
The mother cried out in much agitation,
Uri, Uri, be humble in my terms, my dear.
Mr. McCorber, genteely adjusting his chin in his cravat,
presently proceeded with his composition.
Second, Heep has on several occasions
to the best of my knowledge, information and belief,
systematically forged the signature of Mr. W
and has distinctly done so in one instance,
capable of proof by me.
The signatures to this instrument purporting to be executed by Mr. W
and attested by Mr. Wilkins McCorber
are forgeries by Heep.
I have, in my possession,
in his hand and pocketbook several similar imitations
of Mr. W's signature here and there defaced by fire
but legible to anyone.
I never attested any such document
and I had the document itself in my possession
since relinquished to Mr. Trattles.
Uri Heep, with a start, took out of his pocket
a bunch of keys and opened a certain drawer,
then suddenly befought himself of what he was about
and turned again towards us without looking at it.
Uri Uri, quite the mother,
be humble at my terms.
I know my son will be humble, gentlemen,
if you give him time to think.
In Mr. Copperfield I'm sure you know
he was always very humble, sir.
Mr. McCorber resumed his letter.
Third and last.
I am now in a condition to show
by Heep's false books and Heep's real memoranda
that his last act, completed but a few months since,
was to induce Mr. W to execute a relinquishment
of his share in the partnership
and even a bill of sale on the very furniture of his house
in consideration of a certain annuity
to be well and truly paid by Heep
for common quarter days in each and every year.
The unhappy Mr. W could see no world beyond.
Bankrupt, as he believed,
alike in circumstances in all other hope
and in honour, his sole reliance was upon the monster
in the garb of man who, by making himself necessary to him,
had achieved his destruction.
All this I undertake to show, probably much more.
I whispered a few words to Agnes,
who was weeping half joyfully, half sorrowfully at my side.
I have now concluded
it merely remains for me to substantiate these accusations
and then, with my ill-starred family,
to disappear from the landscape on which we appear
to be an incompetence.
Remaining always, et cetera, et cetera.
Wilkins, McCorber.
There was, as I had noticed on my first visit long ago,
an eye unsafe in the room.
A hasty suspicion seemed to strike Uriah,
and with a glance at Mr. McCorber he went to it
and, through the doors, clanking open.
It was empty.
Where are the books?
He cried with a frightful face.
Don't be uneasy, said Traddles.
They have come into my possession.
What was my astonishment
when I beheld my aunt,
who had been profoundly quiet and attentive,
make a dart at Uriah heap
and seize him by the collar with both hands?
You know what I want, said my aunt.
A straight waistcoat, said he.
No, my property, returned my aunt.
Agnes, my dear, as long as I believed
it had really been made away with by your father,
I wouldn't, and, my dear, I didn't, even to Traddles,
as he knows, breathe a syllable
of its having been placed here for investment.
But now I know this fellow's answerable for it,
and I'll have it.
Trot, come and take it away from him.
I hasten to put myself between them
and to assure her that we would all take care
that he should make the utmost restitution
of everything he had wrongly got.
What must be done, said Traddles,
is this.
First, the deed of relinquishment
that we have heard of must be given over to me now.
Here.
Then, said Traddles,
you must prepare to disgorge all that your capacity
has become possessed of and to make restoration
to the last farthing.
In short, everything here.
In the meanwhile, and until everything
is done to our satisfaction, we shall maintain
possession of these things and compel you
to keep to your own room
and hold no communication with anyone.
I won't do it, said Uriah, with an oath.
Maidst and jail is a safer place of detention,
observed Traddles.
Copperfield, will you go round to the Guildhall
and bring a couple of officers?
Stop, growled Uriah to me.
Mother, hold your noise.
Well, let them have that deed.
Go and fetch it.
Good, said Traddles, when this is brought.
Now, Mr. Heep, you can retire to think.
Uriah, without lifting his eyes from the ground,
shuffled across the room with his hand to his chin
and, pausing at the door, said,
Copperfield, I've always hated you.
You've always been an upstart
and you've always been against me.
As I think I told you once before, said I,
it is you who have been in your greed and cunning
against all the world.
It may be profitable to you to reflect in future
that there never were greed and cunning in the world yet
that did not do too much and overreach themselves.
It is as certain as death.
It was necessary for Agnes to return to her father,
as yet unable to bear more than the dawn of hope
and for someone else to hold Uriah in safekeeping.
So Traddles remained for the latter purpose
to be presently relieved by Mr. Dick.
Mr. Dick, my aunt and I, went home with Mr. McCorber.
His house was not far off
and as the street door opened into the sitting room
and he bolted in with a precipitation quite his own,
we found ourselves at once in the bosom of the family.
Mr. McCorber, exclaiming,
Emma, my life, rushed into Mrs. McCorber's arms.
Mrs. McCorber shrieked and folded Mr. McCorber in her embrace.
The twins testified their joy
by several inconvenient but innocent demonstrations.
Master McCorber, whose disposition appeared
to have been soured by early disappointment
and whose aspect had become morose,
yielded to his better feelings and blubbered.
Is this all your family, mom?
inquired my aunt.
Madam, replied Mr. McCorber, it is a true bill.
My aunt mused a little while and then said,
Mr. McCorber, I wonder,
you have never turned your thoughts to immigration.
There are some people David knows
going out to Australia shortly.
If you decide to go, why shouldn't you go in the same ship?
You may help each other.
Now, think of this now, Mr. and Mrs. McCorber.
Take your time and weigh it well.
There is but one question, my dear mom.
I could wish to ask, said Mrs. McCorber.
Now, are the circumstances of the country such
that a man of Mr. McCorber's abilities
would have a fair chance of rising in the social scale?
No better opening anywhere, said my aunt.
For a man who conducts himself well and is industrious.
I'm pause yet once again.
I am again with Dora in our cottage.
I do not know how long she has been ill.
I'm so used to it and feeling that I cannot count the time.
I have begun to fear remotely that the day may never shine
when I shall see my child wife running in the sunlight
with her old friend Jip.
Dora lies smiling on this and is beautiful
and others no hasty or complaining word.
It is evening.
I have ceased to carry my light burdened up and downstairs now.
She lies here all the day.
Dodie?
My dear Dora.
You won't think of what I'm going to say unreasonable
after what you told me such a little while ago
of Mr. Wickfield's not being well.
I want to see Agnes very much.
I want to see her.
I will write to her, my dear.
Will you?
Directly.
It is night and I'm with her still.
Agnes has arrived.
She has been among us for a whole day and evening.
She, my aunt and I have sat with Dora since the morning altogether.
We have not talked much,
but Dora has been perfectly contented and cheerful.
We are now alone.
I'm going to speak to you, Dodie.
I'm going to say something I have often thought of saying lately.
Perhaps you have often thought the same.
Dodie, dear.
I'm afraid I was too young.
I was such a silly little creature.
I had begun to think I was not fit to be a wife.
I tried to stay in my tears and to reply,
Oh Dora, love as fit as I to be a husband.
Oh how my poor boy cries.
Hush, hush.
Now make me one promise.
I want to speak to Agnes.
When you go downstairs,
tell Agnes so and send her up to me.
And while I speak to her, let no one come.
I want to speak to Agnes quite alone.
Agnes is downstairs when I go into the parlour
and I give her the message.
She disappears, leaving me alone with Jip.
How the time wears, I know not,
until I am recalled by Agnes' face.
That face so full of pity and of grief,
that solemn hand upraised towards heaven.
Agnes?
It is over.
Darkness comes before my eyes
and for a time
all things are blotted out of my remembrance.
I was to go abroad.
That seemed to have been determined among us from the first.
The ground now covering all that could perish of my departed wife,
I waited only for what Mr. Micorba called
the final pulverisation of heap
and for the departure of the emigrants.
At the request of Treadles we returned to Camtabrie.
I mean my aunt Agnes and I.
We proceeded by appointment straight to Mr. Micorba's house,
where, and at Mr. Wickfield's,
my friend had been labouring ever since our explosive meeting.
My dear Copperfield, said Treadles,
I don't make any excuse for troubling you with business
because I know you're deeply interested in it
and it may divert your thoughts.
Now let me see, said Treadles,
looking among the papers on the table.
Having counted our funds,
we take it to be clear that Mr. Wickfield might now wind up his business
and his agency trust
and exhibit no deficiency whatever.
Oh, thank heaven! cried Agnes fervently.
But, said Treadles,
the surplus that would be left as his means of support would be small.
Once at Agnes steadily,
our wants are not many.
If I rent the dear old house
and keep a school I shall be useful and happy.
Next, Miss Trotwood, said Treadles,
that property of yours
I can't account for more than five thousand pounds,
said Treadles, with an air of perplexity.
It was all there was, returned my aunt.
I sold three myself.
One I paid for your articles, Trot, my dear,
and the other two I have by me.
When I lost the rest, I thought it wise to say nothing about that sum,
but to keep it secretly for a rainy day.
I wanted to see how you would come out of the trial, Trot,
and you came out nobly,
persevering, self-reliant, self-denying.
So did Dick.
So, my dear friend,
said my aunt after a pause,
and you have really extorted the money back from him.
Why, the fact is, returned Treadles.
Mr. McCorber had so completely hemmed him in
and was always ready with so many new points,
if an old one failed,
that he could not escape from us.
He left here with his mother.
They went away by one of the London night coaches,
and I know no more about him.
And now, touching Mr. McCorber,
said my aunt,
upon this I struck in at once,
I recommended a small sum in money.
I proposed that the family should have their passage
and their outfit, and a hundred pounds.
To this, I added the suggestion
that I should give some explanation of his character and history
to Mr. Pegaty,
who I knew could be relied on,
and that to Mr. Pegaty
should be quietly entrusted the discretion
of advancing another hundred.
The time drawing on rapidly
for the sailing of the emigrant ship,
my good old nurse came up to London.
I was constantly with her and her brother,
and the McCorbers,
but Emily I never saw.
My aunt and I, at that time,
had a temporary lodging in Covent Garden.
As I walked home to it,
reflecting on what had passed between Hammond and Covent Garden,
my aunt and I had a temporary lodging in Covent Garden.
As I walked home to it,
and on what had passed between Hammond and myself
when I was last at Yarmouth,
I decided it would be better to write to her now.
I therefore sat down in my room
before going to bed and wrote the letter.
I told her that I had seen him
and that he had requested me to tell her
what I have already written in its place in these sheets.
I left it out to be sent round in the morning
with a line to Mr. Pegaty
requesting him to give it to her
and went to bed at daybreak.
I was roused by the silent presence of my aunt at my bedside.
Trot, my dear, she said when I opened my eyes,
Mr. Pegaty is here.
Marshal Davy, he said when we had shaken hands,
I give Emily your letter, sir, and she writ this here
and begged of me for her to ask you to read it
and if you see no hurt in it to be so kind as to take charge on it.
I opened it and read as follows.
I have got your message
or what can I write to thank you
for your good and blessed kindness to me?
I have put the words close to my heart.
I shall keep them till I die.
When I find what you are
and what uncle is,
I think what God must be
and can cry to him.
Goodbye forever.
All thanks and blessings.
Farewell evermore.
May I tell her as you don't see no hurt in it
as you'll be so kind as to take charge on it, Master Davy?
said Mr. Pegaty when I had read it.
Unquestionably, said I,
but I am thinking that I'll go down again to Yarmouth
to put this letter of her writing in his hand at this time
and to enable you to tell her in the moment of parting
that he has got it will be a kindness to both of them.
In the evening I started.
Don't you think that,
I asked the coachman in the first stage out of London,
a very remarkable sky.
I didn't remember to have seen one like it.
Nor I, not equal to it, he replied.
That's when, sir, there'll be mischief done at sea,
I expect, before long.
When the day broke, it blew harder and harder.
I had been in Yarmouth when the seamen said it blew great guns,
but I had never known the like of this or anything approaching to it.
As we struggled on nearer and nearer to the sea,
from which this mighty wind was blowing dead on shore,
its force became more and more terrific.
I put up at the old inn and went down to look at the sea,
staggering along the street,
afraid of falling slates and tiles
and holding by people I met at angry corners.
Coming near the beach I saw not only the boatman,
but half the people of the town.
Joining these groups, I found bewailing women
whose husbands were away in herring or oyster boats,
which there was too much reason to think might have founded
before they could run in anywhere for safety.
I learned there that Ham had gone to Lowestoft
to meet some sudden exigency of ship-repairing
in which his skill was required,
but that he would be back tomorrow morning in good time.
I went back to the inn, very much depressed in spirits,
very solitary, and feeling an uneasiness in Ham's not being there,
disproportionate to the occasion.
If such a wind could rise, I think it was rising.
The howl and roar, the rattling of the doors and windows,
the rumbling in the chimneys, the apparent rocking of the very house
that sheltered me, and the prodigious tumult of the sea
were more fearful than in the morning.
I walked to and fro, tried to read an old gazette here,
listened to the awful noises,
looked at faces, scenes, and figures in the fire.
At length, the steady ticking of the undisturbed clock on the wall
tormented me to that degree that I resolved to go to bed.
When I awoke, it was broad day, eight or nine o'clock,
the storm raging and someone knocking and calling it by door.
What is the matter? I cried.
All right, close by.
I sprung out of bed and asked,
what wreck, a schooner from Spain or Portugal,
make ice there if you want to see her,
it's thought down on the beach, you'll get her pieces every moment.
Numbers of people were there before me,
all running in one direction to the beach.
I ran the same way, outstripping a good many,
and soon came facing the wild sea.
Then, oh great heaven, I saw the wreck, close in upon us.
One mast was broken short off, six or eight feet from the deck,
day over the side, entangled in a maze of sail and rigging,
and all that ruin as the ship rolled and beat,
which she did without a moment's pause
and with a violence quite inconceivable,
beats the side as if it would stave it in.
Some efforts were even then being made
to cut this portion of the wreck away,
for as the ship which was broadside on
turned towards us in her rolling,
I plainly described her people at work with axes,
especially one active figure with long curling hair,
conspicuous among the rest.
But a great cry, which was audible
even above the wind and water,
rose from the shore at this moment.
The sea, sweeping over the rolling wreck,
made a clean breach and carried men, spars, casks, planks,
bulwarks, heaps of such toys into the boiling surge.
Then there was another great cry of pity from the beach.
Four men arose with the wreck out of the deep,
clinging to the rigging of the remaining mast,
uppermost, the active figure with the curling hair.
Again we lost her and again she rose.
Two men were gone.
The agony on the shore increased,
men groaned and clasped their hands,
women shrieked and turned away their faces.
Then I noticed some new sensation
moved the people on the beach and saw them part
and ham come breaking through them to the front.
The determination in his face
and his look out to sea awoke me to a knowledge of his danger.
Another cry arose on shore and looking to the wreck,
we saw the cruel sail with blow on blow
beat off the lower of the two men
and fly up in triumph round the active figure
left alone upon the mast.
Master Davy said ham, cheerily grasping me by both hands.
If my time has come, it has come.
If tant I'll bide it.
Lord above bless you and bless all.
Mate, make me ready, I'm going off.
Then I saw him standing alone,
a rope in his hand, another round his body
until there was a great retiring wave
when he dashed in after it and in a moment
was buffeting with the water,
rising with the hills, falling with the valleys,
lost beneath the foam then drawn again to land.
They hauled in hastily.
He was hurt.
I saw blood in his face from where I stood,
but he took no thought of that.
He seemed hurriedly to give them some directions
for leaving him more free and was gone as before.
And now he made for the wreck,
rising with the hills, falling with the valleys,
lost beneath the rugged foam,
born in towards the shore,
born on towards the ship,
striving hard and valiantly.
At length he neared the wreck.
He was so near that with one more
of his vigorous strokes he would be clinging to it
when a high green vast hillside of water
moving on, shoreward from beyond the ship
he seemed to leap up into it with a mighty bound
and the ship was gone.
Some eddying fragments I saw in the sea
as if a mere cask had been broken
in running to the spot where they were hauling in.
They drew him to my very feet, insensible, dead.
He was carried to the nearest house
and I remained near him while every means of restoration
were tried, but he had been beaten to death
by the great wave and his generous heart
was stilled for ever.
As I sat beside the bed, when hope was abandoned
and all was done, a fisherman,
who had known me when Emily and I were children
and ever since,
whispered my name at the door.
As a body come ashore, he said,
Yes.
Do I know it? I asked them.
He answered nothing.
But he led me to the shore
and on that part of it where she and I had looked for shells,
two children, on that part of it
where some lighter fragments of the old boat
blown down last night had been scattered by the wind
among the ruins of the home he had wronged,
I saw him lying with his head upon his arm
as I had often seen him lie at school.
They brought a hand beer and laid steer forth on it
and covered him with a flag and took him up
and bore him on towards the houses.
I sent for a conveyance in which the beer
could be got to London in the night.
I knew that the care of it
and the hard duty of preparing his mother to receive it
could only rest with me.
One thing more I had to do before yielding myself
to the shock of these emotions.
It was to conceal what had occurred
from those who were going away
and to dismiss them on their voyage in happy ignorance.
I took Mr. McCorber aside that same night
and confided to him the task of standing between
Mr. Pegaty and intelligence of the late catastrophe.
He zealously undertook to do so
and to intercept any newspaper through which it might,
without such precautions, reach him.
My old nurse and I went down to Graves End.
We found the ship in the river surrounded by a crowd of boats,
a favourable wind blowing.
I hired a boat directly and we put off to her
and went aboard.
Mr. Pegaty was waiting for us on deck
and we went below.
As my eye glanced round this place
I thought I saw sitting by an open port
with one of the McCorber children near her,
a figure like Emily's,
but in the rapid motion and confusion
I lost it again.
Is there any last word, Master Davy?
said he.
Is there any one forgotten thing
of four wee parts?
But one thing said I.
Martha.
He touched the younger woman I have mentioned on the shoulder
and Martha stood before me.
Heaven bless you, you good man, cried I.
You take her with you.
The ship was clearing fast of strangers.
The greatest trial that I had remained.
I told him what the noble spirit that was gone
had given me in charge to say at parting.
It moved him deeply.
But when he charged me in return
with many messages of affection and regret
for those deaf ears
he moved me more.
We went over the side into our boat
and lay at a little distance
to see the ship wafted on her cause.
It was then calm, radiant sunset.
As the sails rose to the wind and the ship began to move
they broke from all the boats three resounding cheers
which those on board took up and echoed back
and which were echoed and re-echoed.
My heart burst out when I heard the sound
and beheld the waving of the hats and handkerchiefs
and then I saw her, I, Emily, beautiful and drooping
cling to Mr. Pegaty with the utmost trust
of her bruised heart
and so they solemnly passed away.
It was a long and gloomy night
that gathered on me
haunted by the ghosts of many hopes
of many dear remembrances, many errors
many unavailing sorrows and regrets.
I went away from England
not knowing even then how great the shock was
that I had to bear.
The knowledge came upon me not quickly
but little by little
and grain by grain.
I mourned for my child wife
taken from her blooming world so young.
I mourned for him who might have won
the love and admiration of thousands
as he had won mine long ago.
I mourned for the broken heart
that had found rest in the stormy sea
and for the wandering remnants of the simple home
where I had heard the night wind blowing
when I was a child.
In Switzerland
I came one evening before sunset
down into a valley where I was to rest.
I found a packet of letters awaiting me.
The first I read was from Agnes.
She was happy and useful,
was prospering as she had hoped.
That was all she told me of herself.
The rest referred to me.
She gave me no advice,
she urged no duty on me.
She only told me in her own fervent manner
what her trust in me was.
She knew, she said,
how such a nature as mine would turn affliction to good.
She commended me to God
who had taken my innocent darling to his rest
and in her sisterly affection cherished me always
and was always at my side go where I would.
Proud of what I had done
but infinitely prouder yet
I was reserved to do.
Yet I could not forget
that the feeling with which she now regarded me
had grown up in my own free choice and course.
That if she had ever loved me with another love
and I sometimes thought the time was when she might have done so
I had cast it away.
These were the shifting quicksends of my mind
from the time of my departure
to my return home three years afterwards.
Home was very dear to me
and Agnes too
but she was not mine.
She was never to be mine.
She might have been
but that was past.
I landed in London on a wintry autumn evening.
It was dark and raining
more fog and mud in a minute than I had seen in a year.
For some changes in the fortunes of my friends I was prepared.
My aunt had long been re-established at Dover
and travels had begun to get into some little practice at the bar
in the very first term after my departure.
He had chambers in Grey's Inn now
and had told me in his last letters
that he was not without hopes of being soon united
to the dearest girl in the world.
Number two in the court was soon reached
and an inscription on the doorpost informing me
that Mr. Traddles occupied a set of chambers on the top story.
I ascended the staircase and at last came into the presence of my old friend
seated at a table and bending over papers.
Good God! cried Traddles looking up.
It's Copperfield!
and rushed into my arms where I held him tight.
I passed the next day on the Dover coach
burst safe and sound into my aunt's old parlour while she was at tea
received by her and Mr. Dick and dear old Pegatee
who acted as housekeeper with open arms and tears of joy.
My aunt and I, when we were left alone,
talked far into the night.
And when, trot, said my aunt,
patting the back of my hand as we sat in her old way before the fire,
when are you going over to Canterbury?
I shall ride over tomorrow morning, aunt.
You will find her, pursued my aunt,
as good, as beautiful, as earnest, as disinterested
as she has always been.
If I knew higher praise trot, I would bestow it on her.
I rode away early in the morning for the scene of my old school days.
I was shown up the grave-old staircase into the unchanged drawing-room.
The opening of the little door in the panelled wall made me start and term.
Her beautiful serene eyes met mine as she came towards me.
She stopped and laid her hand upon her bosom that I caught her in my arms.
Agnes, my dear girl, I have come too suddenly upon you.
No, no, I am so rejoiced to see you, trotwood.
Dear Agnes, the happiness it is to me to see you once again.
I folded her to my heart, and for a little while we were both silent.
And you, Agnes, I said by and by,
tell me of yourself, you have hardly ever told me of your own life
in all this lapse of time.
What should I tell?
Popeye's well.
You see us here, quiet in our own home.
Our anxieties set at rest.
Our home restored to us.
And knowing that, dear trotwood, you know all.
It was for me to guard this cisterly affection with religious care.
It was all that I had left myself, and it was a treasure.
If I once shook the foundations, it was lost and could never be recovered.
I set this steadily before myself.
The better I loved her, the more it behoved me never to forget it.
The year came round to Christmas time, and I had been at home above two months.
I had seen Agnes frequently.
It was what lasting reason have I to remember it?
A cold, harsh winter day when I rode over once more to see her.
I found Agnes alone by the fire reading.
She put down her book on seeing me come in,
and having welcomed me as usual,
took her work basket and sat in one of the old-fashioned windows.
You are thoughtful today, trotwood.
Agnes, shall I tell you what about?
I came to tell you.
Dearest Agnes, whom I so respect and honour, whom I so devotedly love,
when I came here today,
I thought that nothing could have rested this confession from me.
I thought I could have kept it in my bosom all our lives till we were old.
But Agnes, if I have indeed any hope that I may ever call you something more than sister,
widely different from sister, her tears fell fast.
Agnes, ever my guide and best support,
if you had been more mindful of yourself and less of me when we grew up here together,
I think my heedless fancy never would have wandered from you.
But you were so much better than I, so necessary to me in every boyish hope and disappointment,
that to have you to confide in and rely upon in everything became a second nature,
supplanting for the time the first and greater one of loving you as I do.
Still weeping, but not sadly, joyfully,
and clasped in my arms as she had never been, as I had thought she never was to be.
When I loved Dora fondly, Agnes, as you know,
even then my love would have been incomplete without your sympathy,
and when I lost her, Agnes, what should I have been without you still?
Closer in my arms, nearer to my heart, a trembling hand upon my shoulder,
a sweet eye shining through her tears on mine.
I am so blessed, Trotwood, my heart is so overcharged,
but there is one thing I must say.
Dearest, what?
She laid her gentle hands upon my shoulders and looked calmly in my face.
Do you know yet what it is?
I am afraid to speculate on what it is. Tell me, my dear,
I have loved you all my life.
We were married within a fortnight.
Traddles and Sophie and Doctor and Mrs. Strong were the only guests at our quiet wedding.
We left them full of joy and drove away together.
Dearest husband, said Agnes,
now that I may call you by that name, I have one more thing to tell you.
Let me hear it, love.
It grows out of the night when Dora died.
She sent you for me.
She made a last request to me and left me a last charge.
And it was that only I would occupy this vacant place.
And Agnes laid her head upon my breast and wept,
and I wept with her, though we were so happy.
What I have purposed to record is nearly finished.
I had advanced in fame and had been married ten happy years.
One day I was told a stranger wished to see me.
It was Mr. Peggarty.
Our fortunes, Master Davy, as soon told.
We haven't fared no owls, but fared to thrive.
What with sheep farming and stock farming,
we're as well to do as we'll could be.
I wonder if you could see my Emily now, Master Davy,
whether you know her.
A slight figure, cleaner, worn, soft, sorrowful, blue eyes,
delicate face, pretty head, timid.
She might have married well.
But uncle, she says to me, that's gone forever.
Martha got married in the second year.
A young man, a farm labourer.
She spoke to me to tell him a true story I did.
And Mr. McCorber.
Mr. McCorber's a magistrate.
We talked much of Mr. McCorber on many other evenings
while Mr. Peggarty remained with us until he sailed.
And we shall never part from him more on earth.
And now, as I close my task, subduing my desire to linger yet,
these faces fade away.
But one face, shining on me like a heavenly light
by which I see all other objects, is above them and beyond them all.
And that remains.
I turn my head and see it in its beautiful serenity beside me.
My lamp burns low and I've ridden far into the night.
But the dear presence without which I were nothing bears me company.
Oh, Agnes.
Oh, my soul.
So may thy face be by me when I close my life indeed.
So may I, when realities are melting from me like the shadows which I now dismiss,
still find thee near me, pointing upward.
So may I, when realities are melting from me like the shadows which I now dismiss,
still find thee near me, pointing upward.

